

 
  
  Adding Graphics - javatpoint
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
   
   
   
  
  
  ? SCROLL TO TOP 
  
    
    
      
      
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           
           
       
      
      
     
     
      
       
       
      
      
       
       
      
     
     
      
       
       Home 
       Excel 
       MS Word 
       PowerPoint 
       C 
       C# 
       Java 
       PHP 
       HTML 
       SQL 
       PL/SQL 
       Python 
       Web Services 
       Quiz 
       Projects 
       Interview Q 
       Comment 
       Forum 
       Training 
       
       
     
     
     
     
      
     
     
      
      MS Excel Tutorial 
      
      
      Excel Tutorial 
      Workbook Window 
      Create & Open Workbooks 
      MS Excel Online 
      Excel vs Google Sheets 
      Office Button 
      Ribbon and Tabs 
      Features of Tabs 
      Quick Access Toolbar 
      Mini Toolbar 
      Title, Help, Zoom, View 
      
      
      Excel Worksheet 
      
      
      Worksheet, Row, Column 
      Moving on Worksheet 
      Enter Data 
      Select Data 
      Delete Data 
      Move Data 
      Copy Paste Data 
      Spell Check 
      Insert Symbols 
      
      
      Excel Calculation 
      
      
      Addition 
      Sigma Addition 
      Subtraction 
      Calculate Average 
      Sigma Average 
      
      
      Excel Fill Handle 
      
      
      Fill Handle 
      Fill Handle with Text 
      Text with Numbers 
      Fill Handle with Dates 
      
      
      Excel Formula 
      
      
      Create Formula 
      Fill Handle in Formula 
      Relative Referencing 
      Absolute Referencing 
      Instruction for Typing 
      Quick Excel Functions 
      
      
      Excel IF 
      
      
      If Function 
      If with Calculations 
      Excel COUNTIF 
      Advanced If 
      
      
      Excel Advanced 
      
      
      Excel Macros 
      Excel sumif 
      Excel vlookup 
      What is Pivot Table 
      Excel ISNA 
      Find & Remove Duplicates 
      Create drop-down List 
      Merge cells in Excel 
      
      
      Misc 
      
      
      How to enable macros in excel 
      How to calculate age in Excel 
      How to create a Pivot Table in excel 
      How to enable the Developer Tab in Excel 
      How to Calculate Standard Deviation in Excel 
      How to Calculate Time Difference in Excel 
      How to Freeze Cells in Excel 
      What-if Analysis in Excel 
      How To Insert Checkbox in MS Excel 
      How To Insert PDF in MS Excel 
      How to change the Date Format in Excel 
      How to compare two Excel sheet 
      How To Apply Filter In Excel 
      How To Move Columns In Excel 
      How to add or remove Hyperlink in Excel 
      How to calculate Mean in Excel 
      How to Separate text in Excel 
      How to recover a macro in Excel 
      How to recover a Corrupted Excel file 
      How to recover an Excel file 
      How to remove comma in Excel 
      How to sum a column in Excel 
      How to remove the filter in Excel 
      How to remove gridlines in Excel 
      How To Convert Excel To CSV 
      How To Create Table in Excel 
      How to Calculate IRR in Excel 
      How to Count Characters in Excel 
      How to Make an Excel Sheet 
      How to Replace Words in Excel 
      How to Sort by Date in Excel 
      How to hide formulas in Excel 
      How to subtract in excel 
      How to use the IF function in Excel 
      How To Create A Graph In Excel 
      How to use concatenate in Excel 
      How to spell check in Excel 
      How to Change Lowercase to Uppercase in Excel 
      How to Create a Dashboard in Excel 
      How to Delete Duplicate Rows in Excel 
      How to use sumifs formula in Excel 
      How to add page break in Excel 
      How to remove the page break in Excel 
      How to Convert Columns to Rows in Excel 
      How to Convert Number to Words in Excel 
      How to Make a Table in Excel 
      How to Put Tick Mark in Excel 
      How to Remove Passwords from Excel File 
      How to Wrap Text in Excel 
      How to insert comments in Excel 
      How to add/remove Password from Excel 
      How to use MS Excel 
      How to sort in Excel 
      How to record a macro in Excel 
      How Many Rows and Columns in Excel 2007 
      How to Search in Excel 
      How to add a text box in Excel 
      How to save Excel document 
      How to set background image in Excel 
      How to use COUNTIF function in Excel 
      How to import the data from CSV file in Excel 
      How to unlock scroll lock in Excel 
      What is a cell in Excel 
      Uses of MS Excel 
      How to Reduce Excel File Size 
      How to Save Excel File as PDF 
      ODS to Excel 
      How to lock cells in Excel 
      How to unlock cells in Excel 
      Hyperlink in Excel 
      How to compare two columns in Excel 
      Conditional formatting in Excel 
      How to define custom rules for conditional formatting in Excel 
      Data validation in Excel 
      Apply data validation in Excel 
      Remove spaces in Excel 
      How to Save Excel File 
      Watermark in Excel 
      How to unhide columns in Excel 
      How to delete blank rows in Excel 
      Excel round off formula 
      How to Add Watermark in Excel 
      How to Remove Watermark in Excel 
      Excel Save As Shortcut 
      Excel Shortcut Keys 
      Excel match function 
      HLOOKUP formula in Excel 
      What is the file extension for Excel 
      Offset function in Excel 
      Compound interest formula in Excel 
      Excel password remover 
      FV() function in Excel 
      MS Excel Definition 
      What is Excel 
      Excelity login 
      Income tax calculating formula in Excel 
      Google Excel Spreadsheet 
      Online Excel Viewer 
      Online Excel Editor 
      How to make pie charts in excel 
      How to calculate number of days between two dates in Excel 
      Excel Download 
      Download MS Office 2019 using command prompt 
      Download Windows and MS office activator 
      Excel Header and Footer 
      Excel to JPG 
      JPG to Excel 
      Salary slip format in Excel 
      How to count colored cells in Excel 
      Excel Substring formula 
      CSV to Excel 
      Word to Excel 
      Regression analysis in Excel 
      How to calculate CAGR in Excel 
      Excel to Word 
      Percentage formula in Excel 
      Mail merge in Excel 
      How to unhide rows in Excel 
      How to Split Cells in Excel 
      Current Date in Excel 
      Index function in Excel 
      How to remove formula in Excel 
      Excel Features 
      Flash Fill in Excel 
      How to convert Excel to JSON 
      Convert Excel to JSON using VBA code 
      Round formula in Excel 
      Excel formula 
      Ratio in Excel 
      Excel Delete Row Shortcut 
      Insert Column Excel Shortcut 
      Excel not equal to operator 
      Logical operators in Excel 
      Delete Data in Excel 
      Excel Slicer 
      Excel Difference Between Two Dates 
      Excel Filter Shortcut 
      Excel Charts 
      Excel text function 
      Excel LOOKUP() function 
      MS Excel Grade Formula 
      10 Disadvantages of Microsoft Excel 
      Shortcut Keys in Excel 2010 
      Advanced Formulas in Excel 
      Excel Merge Cells Shortcut 
      Excel Paste Special Shortcut 
      INDIRECT() function in Excel 
      What is Relative Reference in Excel 
      Excel Sum Shortcut 
      Redo Shortcut in Excel 
      Arrow key is not working in Excel 
      Type of charts in Excel 
      Nested If Function in Excel 
      Lower() in excel 
      Proper() in excel 
      Types of References in Excel 
      AND Function in Excel 
      How to do subtraction in Excel 
      Excel MAX() Function 
      How to delete a Sheet in Excel 
      How to Insert Chart in Excel 
      Excel ISERROR() function 
      Excel add-ins 
      IF() in excel 
      REPT() in excel 
      What is Formatting in Excel 
      OR Function in Excel 
      Solver in Excel 
      Excel AVERAGE() Function 
      Excel MIN() Function 
      Format Painter in Excel 
      COUNTA function in excel 
      Excel mid function 
      Excel right function 
      Excel Choose Function 
      How to Use RIGHT Function in Excel 
      NOT Function in Excel 
      Excel COUNT() Function 
      Line Chart Excel 
      Excel RAND() function 
      Excel find() function 
      Excel tricks 
      Dollar function in excel 
      Left formula in excel 
      Randbetween function in excel 
      ROUNDDOWN Function in Excel 
      Tenure Formula in Excel 
      Excel TODAY and NOW 
      How to unhide worksheet in Excel 
      Freeze panes in Excel 
      Excel PMT Function 
      NETWORKDAYS Formula in Excel 
      Pivot Chart in Excel 
      Excel Hide Shortcut 
      Unhide Shortcut in Excel 
      Range in Excel 
      Strikethrough in Excel 
      How to password protect an Excel sheet 
      Page Orientation in Excel 
      Area Chart in Excel 
      Bubble Chart Excel 
      Autofill in Excel 
      Convert rows to columns 
      Analysis ToolPak 
      Zoom In/Out in Excel 
      Excel Format Painter Shortcut 
      Excel Wrap Text Shortcut 
      Uppercase Shortcut in Excel 
      How to make a bar chart in Excel 
      JSON to Excel 
      Sparkline chart 
      Why MS Excel is Important 
      Waterfall Chart Excel 
      Excel IRR formula 
      Excel Pareto chart 
      Column Chart 
      Formatting Charts 
      Pie Chart 
      Doughnut Chart Excel 
      Scatter Plot Excel 
      Text to column in Excel 
      Excel IFERROR() function 
      Excel Median() function 
      Gantt Chart Excel 
      Consolidate data in Excel 
      Excel Strikethrough Shortcut 
      Flow Chart Excel 
      Organization Chart Excel 
      Excel box plot 
      Excel Transpose Function 
      Circular reference in Excel 
      Excel Filter Function 
      Excel VAR.S() Function 
      Email Workbook 
      Share Workbook 
      Correlation in Excel 
      How many sheets are there in excel workbook by default 
      What is Mod Function in Excel 
      Compatibility mode in Excel 
      How to unprotect Excel sheet without password 
      Adding Graphics 
      Translate Worksheet 
      Excel Large Function 
      Excel Rank Function 
      Cross Referencing in Excel 
      Using Themes in Excel 
      Excel IFNA Function 
      Excel TRIM Function 
      Excel DATEVALUE Function 
      Excel SUBSTITUTE Function 
      Special Symbols in Excel 
      
      
      Shortcut Keys 
      
      
      Excel Shortcut Keys 
      
      
      Interview Questions 
      
      
      Excel Interview 
      HR Interview 
      SQL Interview 
      PL/SQL Interview 
      
      
      
      
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       
        
       
      
      
       
        
        
         
           
            
            next ? 
            ? prev 
            Adding Graphics MS Excel or Microsoft Excel is a great tool for organizing data in a spreadsheet. When visualizing data in a spreadsheet, Excel has several options. It allows users to add or insert different graphic objects, such as images, shapes, clip-arts, text-boxes, etc. By adding different graphics, we improve the visual appearance and increase the overall effectiveness of our Excel worksheet.  In this article, we are discussing various graphics objects present in Excel along with step-by-step tutorials on how we can insert any desired graphic object in our Excel worksheet. How to add/ insert graphics in Excel? Since Excel has a wide variety of graphic objects, we can add/ insert the desired type of graphic accordingly. However, the process of inserting different graphic objects is slightly different for each graphic. Besides, almost all the graphic objects are present under the Insert tab. Let us now understand some of the most common graphic objects in Excel, including procedures for adding them to our sheets: 
            
            Adding Picture Graphics 
            Adding ClipArt Graphics 
            Adding Shapes Graphics 
            Adding Chart Graphics 
            Adding SmartArt Graphics 
            Adding WordArt Graphics 
            Adding Textbox Graphics 
            Adding Picture Graphics Picture graphics (commonly called images or photos) are one of the most common types of graphics used to enhance the visualization of an Excel sheet. Adding pictures to an Excel sheet is a fairly easy task. Additionally, we can choose the desired images from various sources. The two most common sources include local storage and the Web. Adding Picture Graphics from the Local Storage It often happens that we may need to add pictures from local storage, which we have saved earlier. For this, we need to do the following steps: 
            
            First, we need to open an Excel sheet to which we want to add a picture(s).  
            Next, we need to navigate the Insert tab and click the 'Picture' tool from the 'Illustrations' group.  
            After clicking the 'Picture' tool, we need to browse pictures using the 'Insert Picture dialogue box'. We can filter the specific picture format using the drop-down list next to 'All Pictures'. After locating the desired picture, we must double-click on it using the mouse to insert it into our current worksheet. Alternately, we can click the 'Insert' button to do the same task.  Once the picture is inserted into our worksheet, we can adjust its size by dragging the corner edges. Furthermore, we can adjust the height and width of the Excel cells to fit the inserted picture in them.  
            Adding Picture Graphics from the Web There are multiple methods to insert a picture from the web into our Excel worksheet. The most common methods are as follows: 
            
            Saving and Inserting: We need to first navigate to the webpage from which we want to take a picture to add to our Excel worksheet. We must right-click on the specific picture on the webpage and select the 'Save image as' option from the list.  After that, we need to save the picture to a desired local folder. Once the image is saved into our local storage, we can follow the method discussed above in this article. 
            Copy-Pasting: If we don't want to save specific images to our local storage, we can directly copy them and add them to our excel sheet. Like the previous method, we need first to navigate the web page and press the right-click on the particular picture. Next, we need to select the option 'Copy Image' from the list.  After the desired picture is copied, we must go back to our Excel sheet and right-click again. Lastly, we must click the 'Paste' option. Furthermore, we can adjust the size of the picture accordingly.  
            Adding ClipArt Graphics Clip Art is another popular graphic object designed using various pictures in different categories like animals, people, schools, etc. This type of graphic can easily be imported into any other document, such as Word, Excel, PowerPoint slides, etc. We can perform the following steps to insert clip art into our Excel worksheet: 
            
            First, we need to go to the Insert tab and click the 'Clip Art' option.  
            We need to type the relevant keyword into the Search Box and press the Enter key in the next window. This will display various clip-arts according to our searched keyword.  
            Lastly, we must double-click on the desired clip art, and it will be instantly inserted into our worksheet.  
            After the clip-art is inserted into our worksheet, we can adjust the height and width by dragging the corner edges. Alternately, we can select the specific clip art and then manage preferences from the Format tab. Adding Shapes Graphics The shape plays a crucial role in visualizing the worksheet interface, and it can help illustrate the organized data in different styles. It is easy to add shapes into our Excel sheet and combine shapes to form any specific logo or design. We can insert the desired shape by performing the below steps: 
            
            First, we need to navigate the Insert tab and click the drop-down icon associated with the text 'Shapes'. This will display various built-in shapes present in Excel.  
            We can click on the desired shape in the next window and draw it using the mouse within the active sheet.  
            In this way, we can add multiple desired shapes into our Excel sheet. If we create any specific design by using various shapes, we can group them as one shape. For this, we must select each of the added shapes by holding the Ctrl key and then click the option 'Group' from the Arrange section on the ribbon.  When combining various shapes as a single object, we can easily move and resize them as one entity. We don't need to move/ resize each shape one by one. For example, creating a logo by adding and grouping multiple shapes within the sheet.  In the above image, all the shapes have been combined and are acting as a single entity. Similarly, we can add as many shapes as we need to create a specific desired design. Adding Chart Graphics Excel has various built-in charts that help visualize the data within the spreadsheets. Charts can summarize the important data with results in a small area, and they can save time to make any conclusion based on the supplied data. However, we must have a basic understanding of using Excel charts to choose the appropriate chart as per our data sets. Some essential charts in Excel are the Line chart, Bar chart, Column chart, Pie chart, Doughnut chart, etc. The following are some common steps of inserting the desired chart in an Excel sheet: 
            
            First, we must enter the data within the Excel sheet. 
            Next, we must select the appropriate range of entered data sets and go to the Insert We need to select the desired chart from the group named 'Charts'.  
            Once the selected chart is inserted into our worksheet, we can customize the chart elements accordingly. Besides, we can also change the chart types whenever we may need them. Let us create a simple chart (Line Chart) to understand better the process of adding chart graphics into an Excel sheet: Consider the following Excel sheet with some sales data as an example data set.  Now, we will create a simple line chart that will display the sheet data through graphic representation. We must execute the following steps: 
            
            First, we need to select the effective range of data. In our case, we select the range A2:E14, as shown below:  
            Next, we need to go to the Insert tab and click the drop-down icon associated with 'Line' in the 'Charts' group.  
            After that, we need to select the tile named 'Line with Markers'.  This will immediately add the corresponding chart for the selected range of data.  
            In the above chart, we can understand the estimated sales data for each month for each item. In this way, we can add chart graphics to our Excel worksheet. Adding SmartArt Graphics The SmartArt graphics allow users to quickly add a variety of presentation designs, such as flow charts, block-lists, hierarchy diagrams, etc. We can select the desired SmartArt from different categories, including the list, process, cycle, hierarchy, etc. We can add the desired SmartArt graphic by performing the steps discussed below: 
            
            First, we need to launch or open an Excel sheet to which we want to add Smart graphics. 
            Next, we need to go to the Insert tab and click the 'SmartArt' option, as shown below:  
            In the next window, we can choose the desired SmartArt graphic amongst different categories.  Once the selected SmartArt graphic has been inserted within the Excel sheet, we will get the two panes. The first pane is where we can enter text contents to reflect them into our graphical representation, and the text pane is located on the left side. On the other hand, another pane (right-side pane) displays the exact appearance of the inserted SmartArt graphic.  
            Adding WordArt Graphics Like MS Word, Excel also allows users to add WordArt graphics within the active sheet. Using this type of graphics, we can enter stylized text or Word Art objects into the worksheet. We can add the desired WordArt graphic by executing the following steps: 
            
            First, we need to open an Excel sheet to insert a WordArt graphic and navigate the Insert tab on the ribbon. 
            Next, we must click the 'WordArt' option, as shown below:  In the next window, we need to click the desired WordArt object.  This will immediately insert a selected WordArt into our sheet where we can enter the desired text using the keyboard.  After the desired WordArt object has been added, we can adjust shadows, reflections, color glow, and many other preferences to make it more attractive. 
            Adding Textbox Graphics We can add text boxes with various styles to our worksheet. The text boxes mainly help visualize the text content and make it look attractive and eye-catching. Therefore, we can enter some essential information into such boxes and position them anywhere within the Excel sheet, irrespective of Excel grids. To add a text box into our Excel worksheet, we need to perform the following steps: 
            
            First, we need to go to the Insert tab and then select the 'Text Box' option, as shown below:  
            As soon as we click on the 'Text Box', the corresponding tool is activated. After that, we need to click on the excel sheet, and Excel will add a default text box with empty text into our current sheet.  
            Once the text box is inserted, we can click inside the box and type the content we want to insert. Despite this, we can move the text box by dragging it using the mouse. The text content inside the text box will also be moved accordingly.  It is a good practice to try different styles to make the text box more attractive. Although we can manage the different styles manually, we also have some built-in styling options.  
            The text box graphic is more beneficial than the normal text. This is because we can adjust the formatting of the box, box color, text color, border color, etc. Important Points to Remember 
            
            Almost all graphics can be added from the Insert tab on the Excel ribbon. 
            It is best to adjust the height, width, style, and other formattings of the included graphics to match the current theme of our worksheet. 
            We can use the Alt key while dragging the picture's edges with the mouse to adjust the picture size to the extreme corners of Excel cells. 
            To select multiple graphics in an Excel sheet, we can press and hold the Ctrl key while selecting them using the mouse. 
            
            
            
            Next Topic
            Translate Worksheet 
             
            
            ? prev 
            next ? 
             
          
        
        
       
       
      
        
        For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel:  Join Now 
       
       
      Feedback 
       
       Send your Feedback to [email protected] 
       
       
      Help Others, Please Share 
       
       
       
      
       
       
       
       
       
       Learn Latest Tutorials 
        
         
         
           
          Splunk 
           
         
         
           
          SPSS 
           
         
         
           
          Swagger 
           
         
         
           
          Transact-SQL 
           
         
         
           
          Tumblr 
           
         
         
           
          ReactJS 
           
         
         
           
          Regex 
           
         
         
           
          Reinforcement Learning 
           
         
         
           
          R Programming 
           
         
         
           
          RxJS 
           
         
         
           
          React Native 
           
         
         
           
          Python Design Patterns 
           
         
         
           
          Python Pillow 
           
         
         
           
          Python Turtle 
           
         
         
           
          Keras 
           
        
       
       
       
       Preparation 
        
         
         
           
          Aptitude 
           
         
         
           
          Reasoning 
           
         
         
           
          Verbal Ability 
           
         
         
           
          Interview Questions 
           
         
         
           
          Company Questions 
           
        
       
       
       
       Trending Technologies 
        
         
         
           
          Artificial Intelligence 
           
         
         
           
          AWS 
           
         
         
           
          Selenium 
           
         
         
           
          Cloud Computing 
           
         
         
           
          Hadoop 
           
         
         
           
          ReactJS 
           
         
         
           
          Data Science 
           
         
         
           
          Angular 7 
           
         
         
           
          Blockchain 
           
         
         
           
          Git 
           
         
         
           
          Machine Learning 
           
         
         
           
          DevOps 
           
        
       
       
       
       B.Tech / MCA 
        
         
         
           
          DBMS 
           
         
         
           
          Data Structures 
           
         
         
           
          DAA 
           
         
         
           
          Operating System 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Network 
           
         
         
           
          Compiler Design 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Organization 
           
         
         
           
          Discrete Mathematics 
           
         
         
           
          Ethical Hacking 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Graphics 
           
         
         
           
          Software Engineering 
           
         
         
           
          Web Technology 
           
         
         
           
          Cyber Security 
           
         
         
           
          Automata 
           
         
         
           
          C Programming 
           
         
         
           
          C++ 
           
         
         
           
          Java 
           
         
         
           
          .Net 
           
         
         
           
          Python 
           
         
         
           
          Programs 
           
         
         
           
          Control System 
           
         
         
           
          Data Mining 
           
         
         
           
          Data Warehouse 
           
        
       
      
     
     
      
      
       
     
     
     
      
       
      
     
      
     
     
     
      
     
      
     
      
     
     
     
      
      Javatpoint Services 
      JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on [email protected], to get more information about given services. 
       
       Website Designing
       Website Development
       Java Development
       PHP Development
       WordPress
       Graphic Designing
       Logo
       Digital Marketing
       On Page and Off Page SEO
       PPC
       Content Development
       Corporate Training
       Classroom and Online Training
       Data Entry
       
      
     
      
      Training For College Campus 
      JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at [email protected] Duration: 1 week to 2 week
     
     
     
      
      Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter  
       
       
       
       
       
       
     
     
      
       Learn Tutorials
       Learn Java
       Learn Data Structures
       Learn C Programming
       Learn C++ Tutorial
       Learn C# Tutorial
       Learn PHP Tutorial
       Learn HTML Tutorial
       Learn JavaScript Tutorial
       Learn jQuery Tutorial
       Learn Spring Tutorial
      
      
       Our Websites
       Javatpoint.com
       Hindi100.com
       Lyricsia.com
       Quoteperson.com
       Jobandplacement.com
      
      
       Our Services
       Website Development
       Android Development
       Website Designing
       Digital Marketing
       Summer Training
       Industrial Training
       College Campus Training
      
      
       Contact
       Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3
       Noida, UP, 201301, India
       Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935
       Contact Us 
       Subscribe Us 
       Privacy Policy
       Sitemap
       
       About Me
      
     
     
      © Copyright 2011-2021 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
      
      
      
     
   
   
  
   
     
 

