

 
  
  Addressing Sequencing in Computer Organization - javatpoint
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
   
   
   
  
  
  ? SCROLL TO TOP 
  
    
    
      
      
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           
           
       
      
      
     
     
      
       
       
      
      
       
       
      
     
     
      
       
       Home 
       COA 
       Computer Fundamentals 
       Computer Network 
       Control System 
       Java 
       HTML 
       CSS 
       Selenium 
       JavaScript 
       jQuery 
       Quiz 
       Projects 
       Interview Q 
       Comment 
       Forum 
       Training 
       
       
     
     
     
     
      
     
     
      
      COA Tutorial 
      
      
      COA Tutorial 
      CA VS CO 
      Evolution of Computing Devices 
      Functional units of Digital System 
      Basic Operational Concepts 
      
      
      Basic CO and Design 
      
      
      General System Architecture 
      Store Program Control Concept 
      Flynn's Classification of Computers 
      Computer Registers 
      
      
      Computer Instructions 
      
      
      Computer Instructions 
      Design of Control Unit 
      Instruction Cycle 
      Control Logic Gates 
      
      
      Digital Logic Circuits 
      
      
      Digital Computers 
      Logic Gates 
      Boolean Algebra 
      Examples of Boolean algebra simplification 
      Laws of Boolean Algebra 
      Simplification using Boolean Algebra 
      
      
      Map Simplification 
      
      
      Map Simplification 
      Examples 
      
      
      Combinational Circuits 
      
      
      Combinational Circuits 
      Half - Adder 
      Full - Adder 
      
      
      Flip - Flops 
      
      
      S-R Flip-Flop 
      D Flip-Flop 
      JK Flip-Flop 
      T Flip-Flop 
      
      
      Digital Components 
      
      
      Integrated Circuits 
      Decoders 
      Encoders 
      Multiplexers 
      De - multiplexers 
      Registers 
      Shift Registers 
      
      
      Register Transfer 
      
      
      Register Transfer Language 
      Register Transfer 
      Bus and Memory Transfer 
      
      
      Micro-Operations 
      
      
      Arithmetic Micro-Operations 
      Binary Adder 
      Binary Adder-Subtractor 
      Binary Incrementer 
      
      
      Memory Organization 
      
      
      Memory Hierarchy 
      Main Memory 
      Auxiliary Memory 
      Associative Memory 
      Cache Memory 
      
      
      Pipeline 
      
      
      Parallel Processing 
      Pipelining 
      Arithmetic Pipeline 
      Instruction Pipeline 
      
      
      Misc 
      
      
      Booth's Multiplication Algorithm 
      Branch Instruction in Computer Organization 
      Data Representation in Computer Organization 
      ALU and Data Path in Computer Organization 
      External memory in Computer Organization 
      Structured Computer Organization 
      Types of Register in Computer Organization 
      Secondary Storage Devices in Computer Organization 
      Types of Operands in Computer Organization 
      Serial Communication in Computer organization 
      Addressing Sequencing in Computer Organization 
      
      
      
      
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       
        
       
      
      
       
        
        
         
           
            
            next ? 
            ? prev 
            Addressing Sequencing in Computer Organization The control memory is used to store the microinstructions in groups. Here each group is used to specify a routine. The control memory of each computer has the instructions which contain their micro-programs routine. These micro-programs are used to generate the micro-operations that will be used to execute the instructions. Suppose the address sequencing of control memory is controlled by the hardware. In that case, that hardware must be capable to branch from one routine to another routine and also able to apply sequencing of microinstructions within a routine. When we try to execute a single instruction of computer, the control must undergo the following steps: 
            
            When the power of a computer is turned on, we have to first load an initial address into the CAR (control address register). This address can be described as the first microinstruction address. With the help of this address, we are able to activate the instruction fetch routine. 
            Then, the control memory will go through the routine, which will be used to find out the effective address of operand. 
            In the next step, a micro-operation will be generated, which will be used to execute the instruction fetched from memory. 
            We are able to transform the bits of instruction code into an address with the help of control memory where routine is located. This process can be called the mapping process. The control memory required the capabilities of address sequencing, which is described as follows: 
            
            On the basis of the status bit conditions, the address sequencing selects the conditional branch or unconditional branch. 
            Addressing sequence is able to increment the CAR (Control address register). 
            It provides the facility for subroutine calls and returns. 
            A mappings process is provided by the addressing sequence from the instructions bits to a control memory address. 
             In the above diagram, we can see a block diagram of a control memory and associative hardware, which is required for selecting the address of next microinstruction. The microinstruction is used to contain a set of bits in the control memory. With the help of some bits, we are able to start the micro-operations in a computer register. The remaining bits of microinstruction are used to specify the method by which we are able to obtain the next address. In this diagram, we can also see that the control address register are able to recover their address with the help of four different directions. The CAR is incremented with the help of incrementer and then chooses the next instruction. The branching address will be determined in the multiple fields of microinstruction so that they can provide results in branching. If there are status bits of microinstruction and we want to apply conditions on them, in this case, we can use conditional branching. An external address can be shared with the help of a mapping logic circuit. The return address will be saved by a special register. This saved address will be helpful when the micro-program requires returning from the subroutine. At that time, it requires the value from the unique register. Conditional Branching In the above diagram, the branch logic is used to provide the decision-making capabilities in the control unit. There are special bits in the system which is described by the status conditions. These bits are used to provide the parameter information such as mode bits, the sign bit, carry-out, and input or output status. If these status bits come together with the microinstruction field, they are able to control the decision of a conditional branch, which is generated in the branch logic. Here the microinstruction field is going to specify a branch address. The multiplexer is used to implement the branch logic hardware. If the condition is met, it will be branch to the initial address. Otherwise, it will increment the address register. If we load the branch address into the control address register from the control memory, we are able to implement the unconditional branch microinstruction. If the condition is true, it will go to the branch, which is referred to as the address from the next address field of the current microinstruction. Otherwise, it will fall through. There are various types of conditions that need to be tested: Z(zero), C(carry), O(overflow), N(negative), etc. Mapping of Instructions In the control memory, if the microinstruction specifies a branch to the first work, in this case, there will be a special type of branch. Here an instruction contains their micro-program routine. For this special branch, the status bits will be the bits in the operation code, which is the part of instruction.  The above image shows a type of easy mapping process which are going to convert the 4-bit operation code into the 7-bit address for control memory. In the mapping process, the 0 will be placed in the most significant bit of address. After that, the four operation code bits will be transferred. Lastly, the two least significant bits of CAR will be cleared. With the help of this process, a micro-program will be provided to each computer instruction. The micro-program contains the capacity of four microinstructions. If less than four microinstructions are used by the routine, the location of unused memory can be used for other routines. If more than four microinstructions are used by the routine, it will use the addresses 1000000 through 1111111.  This concept can be extended to a more general mapping rule with the help of PLD (Programmable logic device) or ROM (Read-only memory).  The above image shows the mapping of address of microinstruction from the OP-code of an instruction. In the execution program, this microinstruction is the starting microinstruction. Subroutine Subroutines can be referred to as programs that are used to accomplish a particular task by the other routines. With the help of employing subroutines, we can save the microinstructions. These subroutines use the common sections of microcode, such as effective address computation. The main routine is able to get the address for the return with the help of a subroutine register. In another word, we can say that it becomes a source to transfer the address to a main routine. The register file is used to store the addresses for subroutines. These register files can be structured in a way that the register will be organized in the 'Last in first out' (LIFO) stack. 
            
            
            Next Topic
            # 
             
            
            ? prev 
            next ? 
             
          
        
        
       
       
      
        
        For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel:  Join Now 
       
       
      Feedback 
       
       Send your Feedback to [email protected] 
       
       
      Help Others, Please Share 
       
       
       
      
       
       
       
       
       
       Learn Latest Tutorials 
        
         
         
           
          Splunk 
           
         
         
           
          SPSS 
           
         
         
           
          Swagger 
           
         
         
           
          Transact-SQL 
           
         
         
           
          Tumblr 
           
         
         
           
          ReactJS 
           
         
         
           
          Regex 
           
         
         
           
          Reinforcement Learning 
           
         
         
           
          R Programming 
           
         
         
           
          RxJS 
           
         
         
           
          React Native 
           
         
         
           
          Python Design Patterns 
           
         
         
           
          Python Pillow 
           
         
         
           
          Python Turtle 
           
         
         
           
          Keras 
           
        
       
       
       
       Preparation 
        
         
         
           
          Aptitude 
           
         
         
           
          Reasoning 
           
         
         
           
          Verbal Ability 
           
         
         
           
          Interview Questions 
           
         
         
           
          Company Questions 
           
        
       
       
       
       Trending Technologies 
        
         
         
           
          Artificial Intelligence 
           
         
         
           
          AWS 
           
         
         
           
          Selenium 
           
         
         
           
          Cloud Computing 
           
         
         
           
          Hadoop 
           
         
         
           
          ReactJS 
           
         
         
           
          Data Science 
           
         
         
           
          Angular 7 
           
         
         
           
          Blockchain 
           
         
         
           
          Git 
           
         
         
           
          Machine Learning 
           
         
         
           
          DevOps 
           
        
       
       
       
       B.Tech / MCA 
        
         
         
           
          DBMS 
           
         
         
           
          Data Structures 
           
         
         
           
          DAA 
           
         
         
           
          Operating System 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Network 
           
         
         
           
          Compiler Design 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Organization 
           
         
         
           
          Discrete Mathematics 
           
         
         
           
          Ethical Hacking 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Graphics 
           
         
         
           
          Software Engineering 
           
         
         
           
          Web Technology 
           
         
         
           
          Cyber Security 
           
         
         
           
          Automata 
           
         
         
           
          C Programming 
           
         
         
           
          C++ 
           
         
         
           
          Java 
           
         
         
           
          .Net 
           
         
         
           
          Python 
           
         
         
           
          Programs 
           
         
         
           
          Control System 
           
         
         
           
          Data Mining 
           
         
         
           
          Data Warehouse 
           
        
       
      
     
     
      
      
       
     
     
     
      
       
      
     
      
     
     
     
      
     
      
     
      
     
     
     
      
      Javatpoint Services 
      JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on [email protected], to get more information about given services. 
       
       Website Designing
       Website Development
       Java Development
       PHP Development
       WordPress
       Graphic Designing
       Logo
       Digital Marketing
       On Page and Off Page SEO
       PPC
       Content Development
       Corporate Training
       Classroom and Online Training
       Data Entry
       
      
     
      
      Training For College Campus 
      JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at [email protected] Duration: 1 week to 2 week
     
     
     
      
      Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter  
       
       
       
       
       
       
     
     
      
       Learn Tutorials
       Learn Java
       Learn Data Structures
       Learn C Programming
       Learn C++ Tutorial
       Learn C# Tutorial
       Learn PHP Tutorial
       Learn HTML Tutorial
       Learn JavaScript Tutorial
       Learn jQuery Tutorial
       Learn Spring Tutorial
      
      
       Our Websites
       Javatpoint.com
       Hindi100.com
       Lyricsia.com
       Quoteperson.com
       Jobandplacement.com
      
      
       Our Services
       Website Development
       Android Development
       Website Designing
       Digital Marketing
       Summer Training
       Industrial Training
       College Campus Training
      
      
       Contact
       Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3
       Noida, UP, 201301, India
       Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935
       Contact Us 
       Subscribe Us 
       Privacy Policy
       Sitemap
       
       About Me
      
     
     
      © Copyright 2011-2021 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
      
      
      
     
   
   
  
   
     
 

