

 
  
  Azure Fundamentals - javatpoint
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
   
   
   
  
  
  ? SCROLL TO TOP 
  
    
    
      
      
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           
           
       
      
      
     
     
      
       
       
      
      
       
       
      
     
     
      
       
       Home 
       Microsoft Azure 
       IoT 
       Computer Network 
       Control System 
       Java 
       HTML 
       CSS 
       Aptitude 
       Selenium 
       Kotlin 
       C# 
       JavaScript 
       jQuery 
       Quiz 
       Projects 
       Interview Q 
       Comment 
       Forum 
       Training 
       
       
     
     
     
     
      
     
     
      
      Microsoft Azure Tutorial 
      
      
      Microsoft Azure Tutorial 
      Cloud Computing Overview 
      Azure Portal 
      
      
      Azure Storage Service 
      
      
      Storage Service 
      Azure Storage Account 
      Azure Blob Storage 
      Creating a Container 
      Blob Configuration 
      Azure Storage Security 
      Azure File Storage 
      Table & Queue Storage 
      Azure Disk Storage 
      Storage Monitoring 
      Storage Resource Tools 
      
      
      Network Services 
      
      
      Azure Network Service 
      Azure Virtual Network 
      Azure Network Security 
      Azure Network Interface 
      Availability Zones & Sets 
      Azure Load Balancer 
      Azure VNet Connectivity 
      
      
      Compute Services 
      
      
      Azure Compute Service 
      Azure Virtual Machines 
      Azure VM Storage 
      Virtual Machine Scale Set 
      Azure Backup 
      Azure VM Security 
      Azure VM Monitoring 
      Azure Cloud Service 
      
      
      App Services 
      
      
      Azure App Services 
      Azure Web App 
      Azure Mobile App 
      Azure Notification Hub 
      Azure API Apps 
      App Service Backup 
      App Service Security 
      App Service Monitoring 
      Azure CDN 
      Azure Media Service 
      
      
      Database Service 
      
      
      Azure Database service 
      Azure SQL Database 
      SQL Database Configuration 
      SQL Managed Instance 
      Azure COSMOS DB 
      Azure Data Factory 
      SQL Data Warehouse 
      
      
      Azure DevOps 
      
      
      Azure DevOps 
      DevOps Repository 
      DevOps Pipeline 
      What is Cold Storage in Ms Azure 
      
      
      Misc 
      
      
      What is MS Azure Functions 
      What is ETL 
      What is Microsoft Azure Instance 
      What is Databrick 
      Why is PowerShell Used 
      What is a Notebook in Ms Azure 
      What is Azure Resource Manager 
      What is a container group In Microsoft Azure 
      What is Microsoft Azure Functions Premium plan 
      What is Microsoft Azure Subscription 
      What is Azure Lighthouse 
      Active Directory Identity in Azure and access management operations 
      What is Privileged Access Management for Active Directory Domain Services in Azure 
      Difference between Azure DevOps Server and Azure DevOps Services 
      Azure Fundamentals 
      
      
      Interview Questions 
      
      
      Azure Interview 
      
      
      
      
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       
        
       
      
      
       
        
        
         
           
            
            next ? 
            ? prev 
            Azure Fundamentals Azure is a cloud computing platform with an ever-expanding set of services that help you build solutions to meet your business goals. Azure services range from simple web services for hosting your business presence in the cloud to running virtualized computers to run your custom software solutions. Azure offers many cloud-based services such as remote storage, database hosting, and centralized account management. Azure also offers new capabilities such as AI and the Internet of Things (IoT). In this module, you'll take an entry-level, end-to-end look at Azure and its capabilities. You'll get a solid foundation for Azure fundamentals to work through the learning paths available. What are Azure Fundamentals? Azure Fundamentals is a series of six learning paths that introduce you to Azure and its many services and features. Whether you're interested in learning about cloud security best practices, the core of Azure for computing network, storage, and database services, or exploring the cutting edge in IoT and machine learning, check out our curated guide to Azure. Azure Fundamentals include interactive exercises that give you hands-on experience with Azure. Many exercises offer a temporary Azure environment called Sandbox, which allows you to learn freely and at your own pace. Technical IT experience is not required; However, having general IT knowledge will help you make the most of your learning experience. Why should I take Azure Fundamentals? Whether you're just getting started with the cloud or you already have cloud experience and are new to Azure, Azure Fundamentals give you everything you need to get started. Whatever your goals, Azure Fundamentals has something for you. Take Azure's fundamentals if you: 
            
            Have a general interest in Azure or the cloud. 
            Want to earn official certification from Microsoft. 
            The Azure Fundamentals Learning Path Series can help you prepare for the AZ-900 Exam: Microsoft Azure Fundamentals. This exam covers six knowledge domain areas: AZ-900 Domain Area Describe cloud concepts 20-25% Describe Core Azure Services 15-20% Describe key solutions and management tools on Azure 10-15% Describe general security and network security features 10-15% Describe identity, governance, privacy, and compliance features 20-25% Describe Azure cost management and service level agreements 10-15% Each domain area maps to a learning path in Azure Fundamentals. The percentage shows the relative weightage of each area in the exam. The higher the percentage, the more questions will be there in that part of the exam. Be sure to read the exam page for specific information about what skills are involved in each area. This training helps you develop a comprehensive understanding of Azure. Having real-world experience will help reinforce concepts so that you are throughly prepared for exams or apply your skills on the job. What is Azure? Azure Cloud is an ever-expanding set of services that help your organization meet your current and future business challenges. Azure gives you the freedom to build, manage and deploy applications across a vast global network using the tools and frameworks of your choice. What does Azure provide? With Azure, you have everything you need to build your next great solution. The following table lists the many benefits that Azure provides for ease of invoicing with Objective. Be ready for the future: Microsoft's constant innovation supports your growth today and your product vision for tomorrow. Build on Your Terms: You have options. With a commitment to open-source and support for all languages and frameworks, you can build as you wish and deploy wherever you want. Operate the hybrid seamlessly: on-premises, in the cloud, and on edge--we'll meet you where you are. Integrate and manage your environment with tools and services designed for hybrid cloud solutions. Trust your cloud: Get security from the ground up, backed by a team of experts, and proactive compliance trusted by enterprises, governments, and startups. What can I do with Azure? Azure provides over 100 services that enable you to do everything from running your existing applications on virtual machines to exploring new software paradigms, such as intelligent bots and mixed reality. Many teams start exploring the cloud by moving their existing applications to virtual machines running in Azure. Migrating your existing apps to virtual machines is a good start, but the cloud is much more than a separate place to run your virtual machines. For example, Azure offers AI and machine-learning services that communicate naturally with your users through sight, hearing, and speech. It also provides storage solutions that dynamically grow to accommodate large amounts of data, and Azure services enable solutions that would not have been possible without the power of the cloud. What is Azure Portal? Azure Portal is a web-based, integrated console that provides an alternative to command-line tools. With the Azure Portal, you can manage your Azure subscription using the graphical user interface. You can do this: 
            
            Build, manage and monitor everything from simple web apps to complex cloud deployments. 
            Create custom dashboards for an organized view of resources. 
            Configure accessibility options for the optimum experience. 
            The Azure Portal is designed for flexibility and constant availability. It maintains a presence in each Azure datacenter. This configuration makes the Azure portal resilient to isolated datacenter failures and prevents network slowdowns by being closer to users. The Azure Portal is constantly updated, and maintenance activities do not require any downtime.  What is Azure Marketplace? The Azure Marketplace helps users connect with Microsoft partners, independent software vendors, and startups, providing customized solutions and services to run on Azure. Azure Marketplace customers can find, try, purchase, and provision applications and services from hundreds of leading service providers. All solutions and services are certified to run on Azure.  The solution catalog spans several industry categories such as open-source container platforms, virtual machine images, databases, application build and deployment software, developer tools, threat detection, and blockchain. Using the Azure Marketplace, you can quickly and reliably provide a complete solution hosted in your Azure environment. At the time of writing, there are over 8,000 lists. The Azure Marketplace is designed for IT professionals and cloud developers interested in business and IT software. Microsoft partners also use it as a launch point for all joint go-to-market activities. Azure Services Tour Azure can help you tackle tough business challenges. You bring your needs, creativity, and favorite software development tools. Azure brings a vast global infrastructure that is always available for you to build your applications on. Let's take a quick tour of the high-end services provided by Azure. Azure Services Here's a big-picture view of the services and features available in Azure.  Let's take a closer look at the most commonly used categories: 
            
            Networking 
            Storage 
            mobile 
            database 
            Web 
            Internet of Things (IoT) 
            big Data 
            NS 
            DevOps 
            Compute services are often one of the primary reasons why companies move to the Azure platform. Azure provides many options for hosting applications and services. Here are some examples of computing services in Azure. 
            
            Azure Virtual Machines: Windows or Linux virtual machines (VMs) hosted in Azure. 
            Azure Virtual Machine Scale Set: Scaling to Windows or Linux VMs hosted in Azure. 
            Azure Kubernetes Service: Cluster management for VMs running containerized services. 
            Azure Service Fabric: Distributed systems platform that runs in Azure or on-premises. 
            Azure batch: Managed service for parallel and high-performance computing applications. 
            Azure Container Instance: Containerized apps run on Azure without provisioning servers or VMs. 
            Azure Functions: An event-driven, serverless compute service. 
            Networking Connecting compute resources and providing access to applications is the core function of Azure Networking. Networking functionality in Azure includes a range of options for connecting the outside world to services and features in the global Azure datacenter. Here are some examples of networking services in Azure. 
            
            Azure Virtual Network: Connects VMs to incoming virtual private network (VPN) connections. 
            Azure Load Balancer: Balances inbound and outbound connections to applications or service endpoints. 
            Azure Application Gateway: Optimizes app server farm delivery while increasing application security. 
            Azure VPN Gateway: Accesses Azure Virtual Networks through high-performance VPN gateways. 
            Azure DNS: Provides ultra-fast DNS responses and ultra-high domain availability. 
            Azure Content Delivery Network: Delivers high-bandwidth content to customers globally. 
            Azure DDoS Protection: Protects Azure-hosted applications from distributed denial of service (DDOS) attacks. 
            Azure Traffic Manager: Distributes network traffic across Azure regions worldwide. 
            Azure ExpressRoute: Connects to Azure over high-bandwidth dedicated secure connections. 
            Azure Network Watcher: Monitors and diagnoses network issues by using scenario-based analysis. 
            Azure Firewall: Implements high-security, high-availability firewall with unlimited scalability. 
            Azure Virtual WAN: Creates a unified wide area network (WAN) that connects local and remote sites. 
            Storage Azure provides four main types of storage services. 
            
            Azure Blob storage: Storage service for very large objects, such as video files or bitmaps. 
            Azure File Storage: File shares that can be accessed and managed like a file server. 
            Azure Queue Storage: A data store for queuing and reliably distributing messages between applications. 
            Azure table storage: Table storage is a service that stores non-relational structured data (also known as structured NoSQL data) in the cloud, providing a key/attribute store with a schemaless design. 
            All of these services share several common features: 
            
            Durable and highly available with redundancy and replication. 
            Secure through automatic encryption and role-based access control. 
            Scalable with virtually unlimited storage. 
            Manage, maintain and handle any problems that are important to you. 
            It can be accessed from anywhere in the world over HTTP or HTTPS. 
            Mobile With Azure, developers can quickly and easily build mobile back-end services for iOS, Android, and Windows apps. Features that used to take time and increase project risks, such as adding corporate sign-in and connecting to on-premises resources such as SAP, Oracle, SQL Server, and SharePoint, are now easy to include. Other features of this service include: 
            
            Offline data synchronization. 
            Connectivity to on-premises data. 
            Broadcast push notifications. 
            Autoscaling to meet business needs. 
            Database Azure provides several database services to store a wide variety of data types and volumes. And with global connectivity, this data becomes immediately available to the users. 
            
            Azure Cosmos DB: Globally distributed database that supports NoSQL options. 
            Azure SQL Database: Fully managed relational database with auto-scale, integral intelligence, and robust security. 
            Azure Database for MySQL: Fully managed and scalable MySQL relational database with high availability and security. 
            Azure Database for PostgreSQL: Fully managed and scalable PostgreSQL relational database with high availability and security. 
            SQL Server on Azure Virtual Machine: A service is hosting enterprise SQL Server apps in the cloud. 
            Azure Synapse Analytics: Fully managed data warehouse with overall security at every level at no extra cost. 
            Azure Database Migration Service: Service that migrates databases to the cloud without any application code changes. 
            Azure Cache for Redis: Fully managed service caches are frequently used to reduce data and application latency and static data. 
            Azure Database for MariaDB: Fully managed and scalable MariaDB relational database with high availability and security. 
            Web: In today's business world, it is important to have a good web experience. Azure includes first-class support for building and hosting Web apps and HTTP-based Web services. The following Azure services are focused on web hosting. 
            Description 
            
            Azure App Service: Quickly create powerful cloud web-based apps. 
            Azure Notification Hubs : Send push notifications to any platform from any back end. 
            Azure API Management: Publish APIs to developers, partners, and employees securely and at scale. 
            Azure Cognitive Search: Deploy this fully managed search as a service. 
            Web Apps feature of Azure App Service: Create and deploy mission-critical web apps at scale. 
            Azure SignalR Service: Add real-time web functionalities easily. 
            IoT: People can access more information than ever before. Personal digital assistants led to smartphones, and now there are smartwatches, smart thermostats, and even smart refrigerators. Personal computers used to be the norm, and now the Internet allows any online-enabled object to access valuable information. The ability for devices to collect and then relay information for data analysis is called IoT. 
            Many services can help and drive an end-to-end solution for IoT on Azure. IoT central A fully managed global IoT software as a service (SaaS) solution makes it easy to connect, monitor, and manage IoT assets at scale. Azure IoT Hub Messaging hub that provides secure communication and monitoring between millions of IoT devices. IoT edge A fully managed service allows data analysis models to be pushed directly to IoT devices, allowing them to react quickly to state changes without consulting a cloud-based AI model. Big Data: Data comes in all forms and sizes. When we talk about big data, we are talking about the huge amount of data. Data from weather systems, communication systems, genomic research, imaging platforms, and many other scenarios generate hundreds of gigabytes of data. This amount of data makes it difficult to analyze and make decisions, and it is often so large that traditional forms of processing and analysis are no longer suitable. 
            
            
            Next Topic
            # 
             
            
            ? prev 
            next ? 
             
          
        
        
       
       
      
        
        For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel:  Join Now 
       
       
      Feedback 
       
       Send your Feedback to [email protected] 
       
       
      Help Others, Please Share 
       
       
       
      
       
       
       
       
       
       Learn Latest Tutorials 
        
         
         
           
          Splunk 
           
         
         
           
          SPSS 
           
         
         
           
          Swagger 
           
         
         
           
          Transact-SQL 
           
         
         
           
          Tumblr 
           
         
         
           
          ReactJS 
           
         
         
           
          Regex 
           
         
         
           
          Reinforcement Learning 
           
         
         
           
          R Programming 
           
         
         
           
          RxJS 
           
         
         
           
          React Native 
           
         
         
           
          Python Design Patterns 
           
         
         
           
          Python Pillow 
           
         
         
           
          Python Turtle 
           
         
         
           
          Keras 
           
        
       
       
       
       Preparation 
        
         
         
           
          Aptitude 
           
         
         
           
          Reasoning 
           
         
         
           
          Verbal Ability 
           
         
         
           
          Interview Questions 
           
         
         
           
          Company Questions 
           
        
       
       
       
       Trending Technologies 
        
         
         
           
          Artificial Intelligence 
           
         
         
           
          AWS 
           
         
         
           
          Selenium 
           
         
         
           
          Cloud Computing 
           
         
         
           
          Hadoop 
           
         
         
           
          ReactJS 
           
         
         
           
          Data Science 
           
         
         
           
          Angular 7 
           
         
         
           
          Blockchain 
           
         
         
           
          Git 
           
         
         
           
          Machine Learning 
           
         
         
           
          DevOps 
           
        
       
       
       
       B.Tech / MCA 
        
         
         
           
          DBMS 
           
         
         
           
          Data Structures 
           
         
         
           
          DAA 
           
         
         
           
          Operating System 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Network 
           
         
         
           
          Compiler Design 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Organization 
           
         
         
           
          Discrete Mathematics 
           
         
         
           
          Ethical Hacking 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Graphics 
           
         
         
           
          Software Engineering 
           
         
         
           
          Web Technology 
           
         
         
           
          Cyber Security 
           
         
         
           
          Automata 
           
         
         
           
          C Programming 
           
         
         
           
          C++ 
           
         
         
           
          Java 
           
         
         
           
          .Net 
           
         
         
           
          Python 
           
         
         
           
          Programs 
           
         
         
           
          Control System 
           
         
         
           
          Data Mining 
           
         
         
           
          Data Warehouse 
           
        
       
      
     
     
      
      
       
     
     
     
      
       
      
     
      
     
     
     
      
     
      
     
      
     
     
     
      
      Javatpoint Services 
      JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on [email protected], to get more information about given services. 
       
       Website Designing
       Website Development
       Java Development
       PHP Development
       WordPress
       Graphic Designing
       Logo
       Digital Marketing
       On Page and Off Page SEO
       PPC
       Content Development
       Corporate Training
       Classroom and Online Training
       Data Entry
       
      
     
      
      Training For College Campus 
      JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at [email protected] Duration: 1 week to 2 week
     
     
     
      
      Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter  
       
       
       
       
       
       
     
     
      
       Learn Tutorials
       Learn Java
       Learn Data Structures
       Learn C Programming
       Learn C++ Tutorial
       Learn C# Tutorial
       Learn PHP Tutorial
       Learn HTML Tutorial
       Learn JavaScript Tutorial
       Learn jQuery Tutorial
       Learn Spring Tutorial
      
      
       Our Websites
       Javatpoint.com
       Hindi100.com
       Lyricsia.com
       Quoteperson.com
       Jobandplacement.com
      
      
       Our Services
       Website Development
       Android Development
       Website Designing
       Digital Marketing
       Summer Training
       Industrial Training
       College Campus Training
      
      
       Contact
       Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3
       Noida, UP, 201301, India
       Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935
       Contact Us 
       Subscribe Us 
       Privacy Policy
       Sitemap
       
       About Me
      
     
     
      © Copyright 2011-2021 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
      
      
      
     
   
   
  
   
     
 

