

 
  
  Bayes Formula for Conditional probability - javatpoint
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
   
   
   
  
  
  ? SCROLL TO TOP 
  
    
    
      
      
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           
           
       
      
      
     
     
      
       
       
      
      
       
       
      
     
     
      
       
       Home 
       DBMS 
       DS 
       DMS 
       DAA 
       Graph Theory 
       Control System 
       Aptitude 
       Selenium 
       Kotlin 
       C# 
       HTML 
       CSS 
       JavaScript 
       jQuery 
       Quiz 
       Projects 
       Interview Q 
       Comment 
       Forum 
       Training 
       
       
     
     
     
     
      
     
     
      
      Discrete Mathematics 
      
      
      Discrete Mathematics 
      
      
      Sets Theory 
      
      
      Sets Introduction 
      Types of Sets 
      Sets Operations 
      Algebra of Sets 
      Multisets 
      Inclusion-Exclusion Principle 
      Mathematical Induction 
      
      
      Relations 
      
      
      Binary Relation 
      Representation of Relations 
      Composition of Relations 
      Types of Relations 
      Closure Properties of Relations 
      Equivalence Relations 
      Partial Ordering Relations 
      
      
      Functions & Algorithms 
      
      
      Functions 
      Types of Functions 
      Identity Functions 
      Composition of Functions 
      Mathematical Functions 
      Algorithms & Functions 
      
      
      Logic & Propositional 
      
      
      Propositions & Compound Statements 
      Basic Logical Operations 
      Conditional & Biconditional Statements 
      Tautologies & Contradictions 
      Predicate Logic 
      Normal Forms 
      
      
      Counting Techniques 
      
      
      Basic Counting Principles 
      Permutations & Combinations 
      Pigeonhole Principle 
      
      
      Recurrence Relations 
      
      
      Recurrence Relations 
      Linear Recurrence Relations with Constant Coefficients 
      Particular Solution 
      Total Solution 
      Generating Functions 
      
      
      Probability Theory 
      
      
      Probability 
      Addition Theorem 
      Multiplication Theorem 
      Conditional Probability 
      
      
      Graph Theory 
      
      
      Introduction of Graphs 
      Types of Graphs 
      Representation of Graphs 
      Isomorphic and Homeomorphic Graphs 
      Regular and Bipartite Graphs 
      Planar and Non-Planar Graphs 
      Dijkstra's Algorithm 
      Travelling Salesman Problem 
      
      
      Binary Trees 
      
      
      Introduction of Trees 
      Binary Trees 
      Traversing Binary Trees 
      Binary Search Trees 
      Minimum Spanning Tree 
      
      
      Operator & Postulates 
      
      
      Binary Operation 
      Property of Binary Operations 
      
      
      Group Theory 
      
      
      SemiGroup 
      Group 
      SubGroup 
      Normal Subgroup 
      
      
      Ordered Sets & Lattices 
      
      
      Partially Ordered Sets 
      Hasse Diagrams 
      Lattices 
      
      
      Boolean Algebra 
      
      
      Boolean Algebra 
      Boolean Expression 
      Canonical Forms 
      Logic Gates & Circuits 
      Karnaugh Maps 
      
      
      Misc 
      
      
      Proof of De Morgan's Law 
      Discrete mathematics for Computer Science 
      Abelian Groups in Discrete Mathematics 
      Applications of Discrete Mathematics in Computer Science 
      Rings in Discrete Mathematics 
      Order of Group in Discrete Mathematics 
      Principle of Duality in Discrete Mathematics 
      Atomic Propositions in Discrete Mathematics 
      Applications of Tree in Discrete Mathematics 
      Quantifiers 
      Algebraic Structure 
      Counting principle 
      Bijective Function in Discrete Mathematics 
      Multinomial Theorem 
      Lagrange's Mean Value Theorem 
      Cauchy's Mean Value Theorem 
      Rolle's Mean Value Theorem 
      Semantic difference between Set and Type 
      Application of Group Theory in Discrete Mathematics 
      Directed and Undirected graph in Discrete Mathematics 
      Bayes Formula for Conditional probability 
      Difference between Function and Relation in Discrete Mathematics 
      Recursive functions in discrete mathematics 
      Arguments in Discrete Mathematics 
      Elementary Matrix in Discrete Mathematics 
      Hypergeometric Distribution in Discrete Mathematics 
      
      
      DMS MCQ 
      
      
      Discrete Matehmatics MCQ 
      
      
      
      
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       
        
       
      
      
       
        
        
         
           
            
            next ? 
            ? prev 
            Bayes Formula for Conditional probability The Bayes theorem states that the probability of an event is based on prior knowledge of the conditions that might be related to the event. It is also used to examine the case of conditional probability. If we are aware of conditional probability, we can use the Bayes formula to calculate reverse probabilities. Let's understand this concept with the help of an example. Suppose we have to determine the probability of taking a black ball from the second bag out of three different bags of balls, where each bag contains three different balls such as red, blue, black. In such a case, the probability of occurrence of an event is calculated depending on other conditions is called conditional probability. In this article, we will discuss the statement and proof of Bayes theorem, formula, derivation with examples.   The probability of A occurring given that event B has taken place is equal to the product of the probability of event A occurring at all and the probability of event B taking place given that event A has taken place, divided by the probability of event B taking place at all. If you toss two coins, what's the probability they both come up tails? There are four possible outcomes; Coin 1: Heads, Coin 2: Heads Coin 1: Heads, Coin 2: Tails Coin 1: Tails, Coin 2: Heads Coin 1: Tails, Coin 2: Tails Only one of these outcomes is the same thing as "both coming up tails." Therefore, there's a one in four chance that we'll get two tails, and this is the basic example of simple probability. Where the "conditional" part comes in is where we start throwing additional information into the mix. So now, let's ask the question: "what's the probability that we'll get two heads given that coin 1 came up heads?" Going through this: Coin 1: Heads, Coin 2: Heads Coin 1: Heads, Coin 2: Tails So, there's a one in two chance of two heads given the condition that coin 1 comes up heads. Statement of Bayes Theorem Let E1, E2, E3,…….En is a set of events related with a sample space S, where all the events E1, E2, E3,…….En have a non-zero probability of occurrence, and they form a partition of S. Suppose A be the event-related with sample space S, then according to Baye theorem.  For variable k = 1,2, 3,…..n Proof of Bayes theorem According to the conditional probability formula  Examples based on Bayes theorem Example 1 A bag P contains 6 white and 6 blue balls, while another bag Q contains 3 white and 3 blue balls. One ball is randomly drawn from one of the bags, and it is found to be blue. Calculate the probability that it was drawn from bag P. Solution: Let E1 be the event of selecting bag P, E2 be the event of selecting bag Q, and A be the event of drawing a blue ball. Then, P (E1) = P (E2) = ½ Also, P(A/E1) = P (Drawing a blue ball from bag P) = 6/12 = ½ P(A/E2) = P (Drawing a blue ball from bag Q) = 3/6 = ½ Using the Bayes theorem, the probability of drawing a blue ball from bag P out of two bags P and Q is given below.  Example 2 A man is known to speak the truth 3 times out of 5. He throws a dice and reports that the number he has got is a five. Calculate the probability that the number obtained is actually a five. Solution: Let A be the event that the man reports that number five is obtained. Let E1 be the event that four is obtained and E2 be its complimentary event. Then, P (E1) = Probability that five occurs = 1/6 P (E2) = Probability that five does not occur = 1 - P(E1) = 1 - 1/6 = 5/6 Also, P (A/E1) = Probability that man reports five, and it is a five = 3/5 P (A/E2) = Probability that man reports five, and it is not a five, = 2/5 By using Bayes theorem, the probability that number obtained is actually a five,  
            
            
            Next Topic
            Difference between Function and Relation in Discrete Mathematics 
             
            
            ? prev 
            next ? 
             
          
        
        
       
       
      
        
        For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel:  Join Now 
       
       
      Feedback 
       
       Send your Feedback to [email protected] 
       
       
      Help Others, Please Share 
       
       
       
      
       
       
       
       
       
       Learn Latest Tutorials 
        
         
         
           
          Splunk 
           
         
         
           
          SPSS 
           
         
         
           
          Swagger 
           
         
         
           
          Transact-SQL 
           
         
         
           
          Tumblr 
           
         
         
           
          ReactJS 
           
         
         
           
          Regex 
           
         
         
           
          Reinforcement Learning 
           
         
         
           
          R Programming 
           
         
         
           
          RxJS 
           
         
         
           
          React Native 
           
         
         
           
          Python Design Patterns 
           
         
         
           
          Python Pillow 
           
         
         
           
          Python Turtle 
           
         
         
           
          Keras 
           
        
       
       
       
       Preparation 
        
         
         
           
          Aptitude 
           
         
         
           
          Reasoning 
           
         
         
           
          Verbal Ability 
           
         
         
           
          Interview Questions 
           
         
         
           
          Company Questions 
           
        
       
       
       
       Trending Technologies 
        
         
         
           
          Artificial Intelligence 
           
         
         
           
          AWS 
           
         
         
           
          Selenium 
           
         
         
           
          Cloud Computing 
           
         
         
           
          Hadoop 
           
         
         
           
          ReactJS 
           
         
         
           
          Data Science 
           
         
         
           
          Angular 7 
           
         
         
           
          Blockchain 
           
         
         
           
          Git 
           
         
         
           
          Machine Learning 
           
         
         
           
          DevOps 
           
        
       
       
       
       B.Tech / MCA 
        
         
         
           
          DBMS 
           
         
         
           
          Data Structures 
           
         
         
           
          DAA 
           
         
         
           
          Operating System 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Network 
           
         
         
           
          Compiler Design 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Organization 
           
         
         
           
          Discrete Mathematics 
           
         
         
           
          Ethical Hacking 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Graphics 
           
         
         
           
          Software Engineering 
           
         
         
           
          Web Technology 
           
         
         
           
          Cyber Security 
           
         
         
           
          Automata 
           
         
         
           
          C Programming 
           
         
         
           
          C++ 
           
         
         
           
          Java 
           
         
         
           
          .Net 
           
         
         
           
          Python 
           
         
         
           
          Programs 
           
         
         
           
          Control System 
           
         
         
           
          Data Mining 
           
         
         
           
          Data Warehouse 
           
        
       
      
     
     
      
      
       
     
     
     
      
       
      
     
      
     
     
     
      
     
      
     
      
     
     
     
      
      Javatpoint Services 
      JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on [email protected], to get more information about given services. 
       
       Website Designing
       Website Development
       Java Development
       PHP Development
       WordPress
       Graphic Designing
       Logo
       Digital Marketing
       On Page and Off Page SEO
       PPC
       Content Development
       Corporate Training
       Classroom and Online Training
       Data Entry
       
      
     
      
      Training For College Campus 
      JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at [email protected] Duration: 1 week to 2 week
     
     
     
      
      Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter  
       
       
       
       
       
       
     
     
      
       Learn Tutorials
       Learn Java
       Learn Data Structures
       Learn C Programming
       Learn C++ Tutorial
       Learn C# Tutorial
       Learn PHP Tutorial
       Learn HTML Tutorial
       Learn JavaScript Tutorial
       Learn jQuery Tutorial
       Learn Spring Tutorial
      
      
       Our Websites
       Javatpoint.com
       Hindi100.com
       Lyricsia.com
       Quoteperson.com
       Jobandplacement.com
      
      
       Our Services
       Website Development
       Android Development
       Website Designing
       Digital Marketing
       Summer Training
       Industrial Training
       College Campus Training
      
      
       Contact
       Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3
       Noida, UP, 201301, India
       Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935
       Contact Us 
       Subscribe Us 
       Privacy Policy
       Sitemap
       
       About Me
      
     
     
      © Copyright 2011-2021 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
      
      
      
     
   
   
  
   
     
 

