

 
  
  Boot Repair Ubuntu - javatpoint
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
   
   
   
  
  
  ? SCROLL TO TOP 
  
    
    
      
      
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           
           
       
      
      
     
     
      
       
       
      
      
       
       
      
     
     
      
       
       Home 
       Linux 
       C 
       Java 
       Python 
       Shell Scripting 
       SQL 
       HTML 
       CSS 
       JavaScript 
       XML 
       Ajax 
       Android 
       Projects 
       Interview Q 
       
       
     
     
     
     
      
     
     
      
      Linux Tutorial 
      
      
      Linux Tutorial 
      What is Linux 
      Advantages of Linux 
      Linux History 
      Linux Features 
      Linux Bash 
      Unix vs Linux 
      Linux vs Windows 
      Linux Distributions 
      Linux Licensing 
      Set Environment Variable 
      Linux Set Command 
      Linux export Command 
      
      
      Linux Directories 
      
      
      Linux Directories 
      Linux Home Directory 
      Linux pwd 
      Linux cd 
      Linux Absolute Relative 
      Linux Path Completion 
      Linux ls 
      Linux mkdir 
      Linux rmdir 
      Rename Folder in Linux 
      
      
      Linux Commands 
      
      
      Linux commands List 
      Commands with Example 
      
      
      Linux Users 
      
      
      Linux Users 
      Linux Create User 
      Local su Commands 
      Linux User Management 
      User Password 
      Local Groups 
      Add User to Group 
      Linux id Command 
      
      
      Linux Files 
      
      
      Linux Files 
      Linux File System 
      Linux Create File 
      Linux file 
      Linux touch 
      Linux rm 
      Linux cp 
      Linux mv 
      Linux rename 
      Linux install Command 
      Linux read Command 
      
      
      Linux File Contents 
      
      
      Linux File Contents 
      Open File in Linux 
      Linux Edit File 
      Linux which command 
      Linux head 
      Linux tail 
      Linux cat 
      Linux tac 
      Linux more 
      Linux less 
      Linux strings command 
      Linux Print 
      
      
      Linux Process 
      
      
      Kill Process Linux 
      Linux terminating 
      1) Linux kill 
      2) Linux killall 
      3) Linux pkill 
      4) Linux xkill 
      Nohup Command 
      Linux at command 
      Linux exit command 
      
      
      Linux File Hierarchy 
      
      
      Linux File Hierarchy 
      Binary Directories 
      Configuration Directories 
      Data Directories 
      Memory Directories 
      Usr Directory 
      var Directory 
      Non-standard directories 
      
      
      Linux Filters 
      
      
      Linux Filters 
      Linux cat 
      Linux cut 
      Linux grep 
      Linux comm 
      Linux sed 
      Linux tee 
      Linux tr 
      Linux uniq 
      Linux wc 
      Linux od 
      Linux sort 
      Linux gzip 
      
      
      AWK Command 
      
      
      Linux AWK Command 
      
      
      Programming with Linux 
      
      
      Linux make command 
      GCC Linux 
      
      
      Linux I/O Redirection 
      
      
      Linux I/O Redirection 
      Linux Input Redirection 
      Linux Output Redirection 
      Linux Error Redirection 
      
      
      Linux Unix Tools 
      
      
      Linux Unix Tools 
      Linux Find 
      Linux Locate 
      Linux Date 
      Linux Cal 
      Linux Sleep 
      Linux Time 
      Linux zcat/zmore 
      Linux bzip2 / bunzip2 
      Linux bzcat / bzmore 
      Linux df 
      
      
      Linux Regex 
      
      
      Linux expr command 
      Linux RegEx 
      Linux Grep RegEx 
      Linux rename RegEx 
      Linux Sed RegEx 
      
      
      File Security 
      
      
      Linux File OwnerShip 
      Linux chgrp Command 
      Linux File Permission 
      Linux chmod Command 
      Linux chown command 
      Linux Advance Permission 
      Linux File Links 
      1) Linux Inodes 
      2) Linux Link Directories 
      3) Linux Hard links 
      4) Linux Soft links 
      5) Linux Remove link 
      
      
      Shell Commands 
      
      
      Linux Shell Commands 
      Linux Aliases 
      Linux Arguments 
      Linux Displaying Shell 
      Linux Control Operators 
      1) Semicolon 
      2) Ampersand 
      3) Dollar Question Mark 
      4) Double Ampersand 
      5) Double Vertical Bar 
      6) Combining && and || 
      7) Pound Sign 
      8) ESC 
      Linux File Globbing 
      Linux Shell Embedding 
      Linux Shell History 
      Linux history Command 
      Linux History Commands 
      Linux Histroy Size 
      Linux Bang Bang 
      
      
      Linux Networking 
      
      
      Linux Networking 
      1) Linux ifconfig 
      2) Linux ip 
      Linux telnet Command 
      SSH Linux 
      Linux mail Command 
      3) Linux traceroute 
      4) Linux tracepath 
      5) Linux ping 
      6) Linux netstat 
      7) Linux ss 
      8) Linux dig 
      9) Linux nslookup 
      10) Linux route 
      11) Linux host 
      12) Linux arp 
      13) Linux iwconfig 
      14) Linux hostname 
      15) Linux curl & wget 
      Linux Curl Command 
      16) Linux mtr 
      17) Linux whois 
      18) Linux ifplugstatus 
      
      
      Linux Misc 
      
      
      chkconfig command in Linux 
      How to change user password in Linux 
      Awk Command Usage 
      How to unzip files in Linux 
      Linux chroot Command 
      Linux Watch Command 
      Ubuntu Vs. Kali Linux 
      Clear cache Linux 
      7 QC Tools 
      Linux Process Memory Usage 
      Linux Tree Command 
      Wine Linux 
      Linux Commands to Check Disk Space 
      Manjaro Vs. Ubuntu 
      Architecture of Linux 
      Linux Lite 
      Linux Shell 
      Linux Meaning 
      Linux Foundation 
      Linux List Directories 
      Linux Shortcuts 
      Best Linux Distro 
      Who command in Linux 
      Linux Server 
      Debian vs Ubuntu 
      Types of Files in Unix 
      Linux Daemon 
      Linux Zip Command 
      CPU Utilization in Linux 
      Linux Terminal 
      Linux sudo 
      Basic Linux Commands 
      How to Check RAM in Linux 
      Linux List Users 
      Kill command 
      Tar command 
      Linux Find File 
      Echo command 
      Linux Change or set Password 
      SSH Command 
      What is sshd in Linux 
      Linux Screen Command 
      Linux Check Disk Space 
      Run command in Linux 
      Linux Memory Management 
      Linux Reboot Command 
      How to Inspect the Memory in Linux 
      Ubuntu GNOME 
      How to check open ports in Linux 
      Linux vs Ubuntu 
      Ping command in Linux 
      Linux Source Command 
      Linux Terminal Shortcuts 
      Find IP Address in Linux 
      Linux date Command 
      Linux hosts (file) 
      UNIX operating system 
      Linux dpkg command 
      Latest Kernel Linux Version 
      Linux Package Manager 
      Linux proc 
      Linux Task Manager 
      Linux Signals 
      Parrot OS vs. Kali Linux 
      Ubuntu Features 
      Linux ISO 
      Putty Command in Linux 
      Check OS Version in Linux 
      Linux Change Timezone 
      Linux Load Average 
      Linux Firewall 
      RPM Command in Linux 
      Cron Command 
      Linux Change Hostname 
      Ubuntu Disable Firewall 
      Latest Release of Ubuntu 
      Ubuntu Logo 
      Ubuntu MATE 
      Ubuntu Nvidia Drivers 
      Zoom Ubuntu 
      Install tar.gz Ubuntu 
      Ubuntu Screen Recorder 
      Ubuntu Server 
      Ubuntu Wallpaper 
      xVideoServiceThief Ubuntu Linux Free 
      Restart Apache Ubuntu 
      Ubuntu 20.04 LTS 
      Ubuntu Bootable USB 
      Ubuntu Desktop 
      Ubuntu Font 
      X videoservicethief Ubuntu 18 command 
      Ubuntu Games 
      Ubuntu Update Command 
      Ubuntu LTS 
      vscode for Ubuntu 
      Android Studio Ubuntu 
      AnyDesk Ubuntu 
      Ask Ubuntu 
      Boot Repair Ubuntu 
      Install AWS CLI Ubuntu 
      Install NVM Ubuntu 
      Install JDK Ubuntu 
      Install RVM Ubuntu 
      Install Skype Ubuntu 
      Ubuntu Budgie 
      
      
      Linux Editors 
      
      
      Linux Text Editors 
      
      
      Linux vi Editor 
      
      
      Vi Editor 
      1) switch 
      2) move 
      3) jump 
      4) delete 
      5) undo and repeat 
      6) cut, copy, paste 
      7) cut, copy, paste blocks 
      8) Start and end 
      9) Joining 
      10) word 
      11) Search 
      12) Replace all 
      13) Text Buffers 
      14) Abbreviations 
      
      
      Linux System Admin 
      
      
      Linux Admin Commands 
      Linux uptime 
      Linux service 
       Linux pmap 
       Linux wget command 
      Linux ftp or sftp 
      Linux free Command 
      Linux top 
      Linux last 
      Linux ps 
      Linux shutdown 
      Linux info 
      Linux env 
      Linux du 
      Linux init 
      Linux Nano Editor 
       Linux shred 
      Linux mount 
      Linux route 
      
      
      Linux Man Pages 
      
      
      Linux man 
      Linux man -a 
      Linux man -aw 
      Linux man -f 
      Linux man -k(apropos) 
      Linux man whereis 
      Whatis command in Linux 
      
      
      Error Codes 
      
      
      Linux Error Codes 
      
      
      Linux Interview 
      
      
      
      
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       
        
       
      
      
       
        
        
         
           
            
            next ? 
            ? prev 
            Boot Repair Ubuntu Boot repair Ubuntu is a general tool for repairing the issues of frequent boot we may trigger in Ubuntu like if we cannot boot Ubuntu operating system after installing Windows operating system or other distributions of Linux, or if we cannot boot Windows operating system after installing Ubuntu operating system, or if GRUB isn't shown anymore, a few upgrades can break GRUB, etc. In Ubuntu, boot repair enables us to fix these types of issues using a normal click which can restore access to the OSes that we had installed before this issue. Also, boot repair has various advanced options for backing up boot sectors, table partitions, creating a Boot-Info (for getting help by forum or email), or changing the default parameters of repair: add kernel options, configure GRUB, restore an MBR (Windows-compatible), modify the default operating system, purge GRUB, describe the disk in which GRUB must be installed, repair the broken file system, etc. Boot repair will establish a Pastebin link of Ubuntu for us to distribute that permits experienced members to check what is wrong with our boot for the goal of helping the IRC and forum members help us recognize issues with our boot setup. The Pastebin of Ubuntu is not searchable or indexable easily, and the goal of the tool that establishes the Boot-Info page is meant to be a helpful solution to the issue. Neither the intention is to violate our privacy nor it is meant to make us a target. But this tool is entirely focused on those new users of Ubuntu who wish to get past the issues of their booting and easily using Linux. If we would like to, we may opt out of every internet usage completely including the generation of Pastebin link by checking the section of Advanced Options. Note: Boot repair is licensed upon GNU-GPL and it is free software. Advantages of boot-repair Some of the main advantages of using boot-repair are mentioned below:  
            
            Reliable (400.000 users/year) 
            Safe (automatic backups) 
            Helpful (the summary of Boot-Info for getting help by our favorite forum or email) 
            Free (licensed under open-source GPL) 
            Easy to use (can be repaired in one click) 
            Can delete access to Windows (Windows10, Windows8, Winodws7, Vista, XP). 
            Can delete access to Arch Linux, OpenSuse, Fedora, Mint, Ubuntu, Debian, and others. 
            Can delete access to any operating system (Linux, macOS, Windows, etc) if our PC includes Arch Linux, OpenSuse, Fedora, Mint, Ubuntu, Debian, or derivatives. 
            Options for easily re-installing bootloader of GRUB1/GRUB2 (by default OS, kernel options, unhide, purge, etc). 
            Can repair boot if we have an error message, i.e., "GRUB Recovery". 
            Can repair boot of MBR-locked OEM computer when the actual boot sectors have been saved via Clean-Ubiquity. 
            What is GRUB? GNU GRUB is a package of bootloaders from the project of GNU. It is a reference implementation of the Multiboot Specification of the Free Software Foundation which facilitates a user the selection for booting one of more than one OS installed on a system or choose a particular configuration of kernel available on a specific partition of the operating system. GNU GRUB was designed with a package known as the Grand Unified Bootloader (based on Grand Unified Theory). Predominantly, it is used for many Unix-like systems. The GNU OS applies GNU GRUB as a bootloader, as implement most Solaris OS on x86 systems and LINUX distributions, beginning with the release of Solaris 10 1/06. There is also a term called GRUB 2. GRUB 2 can be defined as the default manager and bootloader since the 9.10 version of Ubuntu (Karmic Koala). GRUB 2 either automatically sends the control to the Kernel of the operating system or represents a menu and then awaits the input of the user. GRUB 2 can also be described as a descendant of GRUB (short for GRand Unified Bootloader). Also, it has been fully rewritten to facilitate the user significantly high performance and flexibility. GRUB 2 is freely available software in the market. Introduction to Boot-Info A Boot-Info can be described as the diagnosis report that supports finding anomalies in our computer or boot parameters. It's not a backup, it is a type of "instant picture of our system". Often, we will be asked for indicating our Boot-Info to support people who know the problem in the Ubuntu forums. Two methods are suggested to easily make this report: 
            
            Using an Ubuntu disc (needs an Internet connection and Ubuntu disc) 
            Or using a Boot-Repair-Disk (it is the easiest way if we often make the reports of Boot-Info or if the system to diagnose doesn't have an Internet connection) 
            Some of the important key points of Boot-Info are mentioned below: 
            
            The Boot-Info can be specified as an instant image of our primary system parameters. Neither, it modifies the boot nor the files of the system. We can redo this process any time we wish. 
            If the internet connection is not connected at the time of this process, the tool will not represent the URL. However, it will show the report of the Boot-Info within a text viewer (it is less convenient as compared to an URL because we will need to copy and paste the data of this file over the forums). If we can, connect to an internet connection after that redo the process for getting an URL. 
            If forgot for noting down the URL then redo the process. 
            People will just need to open the URL in the web browser to check the report content once we indicated an URL to someone. 
            The Boot-Info report is more specific as compared to the one we can obtain by Boot-Info-Script. 
            The Boot-Info bottom is indicated the repair type which will be implemented if we select the button, i.e., Recommended Repair of the Boot-Repair utility. 
            Boot-Repair will implement the operations of these repairs if we select Recommended Repair. Then it will show a complete Boot-Info including the repair log as well (which permits to find some issues that will not be found by the standard Boot-Info). 
            Don't modify the Boot-Repair Advanced Options if we haven't invited to. 
            Boot repair can:  
            
            Repair any broken file system 
            Restore an MBR (Windows-compatible) 
            Modify the OS (default) in GRUB 
            Add the options of kernel 
            Configure the bootloader of GRUB 
            Install the bootloader of GRUB 
            Backing up device boot sectors 
            Backing up partition tables 
            And many others 
            We can now install boot-repair using the following command: 
            
           
            
$ sudo apt install boot-repair

            Now, we need to press y and after that click the Enter button to proceed. Backup partition table using boot-repair We can back up our partition table with the help of boot repair. It's important because if our partition table somehow gets corrupted, we will be able for recovering the partitions and also get our data back. We might lose all our data otherwise. We need to just press on the button, i.e., Backup partition tables, boot sectors and logs for backing up our partition tables. We need to choose a location in which we wish to save the data of our partition and press on the Save option. We should find a message when the partition table is saved. Just press on OK. We should now be able to see a zip file inside the directory that we chose earlier. Repair file systems using boot-repair Our file systems might get infected at times and Ubuntu would not be able to solve it on boot automatically. It might result in many boot failures. We can fix our file system using Boot Repair. We only need to check an option, i.e., Repair file systems in the tab, i.e., Main options, and then press on the Apply option. It should take a few minutes to repair our file system and solve the problems of the boot. We should be capable of booting into our installed OSes as usual again when it is done. Modifying GRUB location using boot-repair We can define where GRUB has been installed on our hard drive with the Boot Repair advanced options. If we have more than one hard drive that is installed on our system that has installed GRUB, then we might wish to fix which hard drives we wish to repair here. For modifying the location of GRUB, we need to go to the tab, i.e., GRUB location of boot repair. Now choose the partition of the hard drive from a drop-down menu, i.e., OS to boot by default. Also, choose the partition of the hard drive which is applied as EFI System Partition from a drop-down menu, i.e., Separate /boot/efi partition if we are applying a UEFI-based motherboard. Modifying the options of GRUB using boot-repair Also, we can change several options of GRUB using a tab, i.e., GRUB options of Boot Repair. Getting boot-repair First option: a disk having Boot-Repair One of the easiest ways for using Boot-Repair is to establish a disk including the tool (e.g., a disk automatically starting Boot-Repair, Boot-Repair-Disk) and boot over it. Note: It is suggested to install an ISO over live-USB (e.g., via a Universal USB Installer, LiliUSB, or Unet Bootin). Don't burn it over a DVD if our system has Windows 8 operating system pre-installed, or if our boot is in the mode of EFI. Second option: installing Boot-Repair on Ubuntu 
            
            Either from our installed session of Ubuntu (if we can access it) or from live-session of Ubuntu (boot our system on a live-USB or live-CD of Ubuntu, then select "Try Ubuntu". 
            Link to the Internet 
            Open the terminal then enter a few commands which are mentioned below (click enter after every line): 
            
           
            
$ sudo apt-add-repository ppa:yannubuntu/boot-repair

               
           
            
$ sudo apt-get update

               
           
            
$ sudo apt-get install -y boot-repair && boot-repair

               
           
            
boot-repair

              Applying boot-repair Suggested repair 
            
             We can launch the boot repair using either: 
              
              By entering 'boot-repair' in our terminal 
              Or by the Dash (the logo of Ubuntu on the top-left side of the screen) 
               
            After that, select the button, i.e., "Recommended repair". Note down the URL that is illustrated on a paper when the repair is completed. Then, reboot and see if we recovered access to over operating systems. 
            Refer the URL to users who help us by forum or email if the repair didn't succeed. 
            Warning: The settings (default) are those that are applied by the "Recommended Repair". Modifying them might worsen our problem. Do not change them before establishing a Boot-Info URL, and prompting for advice in Ubuntu forums Installation and Upgrades or Absolute Beginners Section. Recovering Ubuntu after install Windows This article specifies how to recover or restore the boot-loader after installing Windows operating system. A few reasons for repairing our boot loader may contain installing Windows operating system after we have installed Ubuntu, removing or adding a hard drive, or modifying the settings of the hard drive. Important: This article doesn't help if we had installed Ubuntu in Windows (by the Wubi installer). With the Ubuntu CD (Suggested) Using the graphical way 
            
            We need to insert our Ubuntu CD, restart our system, and set it for booting from CD inside the BIOS and boot within a live session. Also, we can use any LiveUSB if we have made one in the past. 
            After that install and execute boot-repair 
            Select "Recommended Repair". 
            Now restart our computer. The usual boot menu of GRUB should occur. While booting, we need to hold the left shift key if it doesn't. We will be able to select between Windows and Ubuntu. 
            Using the terminal way We need to open our terminal. As of the 11.10 version and 11.04 version of Ubuntu, it could be implemented by opening a Unity Dash (we can select the logo of Ubuntu inside the top panel or we can also use the Windows key on our keyboard) and entering in "Terminal", and pressing what comes up. We can do it by going to the Applications > Accessories > Terminal on the previous versions. Alternatively, we can apply the shortcut of the keyboard, i.e., Ctrl+Alt+T. With the Ubuntu alternate CD 
            
            Boot our computer with the Ubuntu alternate CD. 
            If the Ubuntu splash screen appears with the boat: ask, input in rescue, and click enter. 
            Select the location (country), language, and then the layout of the keyboard because if we were doing a new install. 
            Type the name of the host or leave it with the Ubuntu default. 
            We are represented with the screen in which we can choose which partition is our root partition at this stage (there is a partition list on our hard drive, so we are needed to understand which Ubuntu number of partitions is on). It would be the dev/discs/discY/partX, in which the X specifies a partition number and Y specifies the drive number. 
            
            
            
            Next Topic
            Install AWS CLI Ubuntu 
             
            
            ? prev 
            next ? 
             
          
        
        
       
       
      
        
        For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel:  Join Now 
       
       
      Feedback 
       
       Send your Feedback to [email protected] 
       
       
      Help Others, Please Share 
       
       
       
      
       
       
       
       
       
       Learn Latest Tutorials 
        
         
         
           
          Splunk 
           
         
         
           
          SPSS 
           
         
         
           
          Swagger 
           
         
         
           
          Transact-SQL 
           
         
         
           
          Tumblr 
           
         
         
           
          ReactJS 
           
         
         
           
          Regex 
           
         
         
           
          Reinforcement Learning 
           
         
         
           
          R Programming 
           
         
         
           
          RxJS 
           
         
         
           
          React Native 
           
         
         
           
          Python Design Patterns 
           
         
         
           
          Python Pillow 
           
         
         
           
          Python Turtle 
           
         
         
           
          Keras 
           
        
       
       
       
       Preparation 
        
         
         
           
          Aptitude 
           
         
         
           
          Reasoning 
           
         
         
           
          Verbal Ability 
           
         
         
           
          Interview Questions 
           
         
         
           
          Company Questions 
           
        
       
       
       
       Trending Technologies 
        
         
         
           
          Artificial Intelligence 
           
         
         
           
          AWS 
           
         
         
           
          Selenium 
           
         
         
           
          Cloud Computing 
           
         
         
           
          Hadoop 
           
         
         
           
          ReactJS 
           
         
         
           
          Data Science 
           
         
         
           
          Angular 7 
           
         
         
           
          Blockchain 
           
         
         
           
          Git 
           
         
         
           
          Machine Learning 
           
         
         
           
          DevOps 
           
        
       
       
       
       B.Tech / MCA 
        
         
         
           
          DBMS 
           
         
         
           
          Data Structures 
           
         
         
           
          DAA 
           
         
         
           
          Operating System 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Network 
           
         
         
           
          Compiler Design 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Organization 
           
         
         
           
          Discrete Mathematics 
           
         
         
           
          Ethical Hacking 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Graphics 
           
         
         
           
          Software Engineering 
           
         
         
           
          Web Technology 
           
         
         
           
          Cyber Security 
           
         
         
           
          Automata 
           
         
         
           
          C Programming 
           
         
         
           
          C++ 
           
         
         
           
          Java 
           
         
         
           
          .Net 
           
         
         
           
          Python 
           
         
         
           
          Programs 
           
         
         
           
          Control System 
           
         
         
           
          Data Mining 
           
         
         
           
          Data Warehouse 
           
        
       
      
     
     
      
      
       
     
     
     
      
       
      
     
      
     
     
     
      
     
      
     
      
     
     
     
      
      Javatpoint Services 
      JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on [email protected], to get more information about given services. 
       
       Website Designing
       Website Development
       Java Development
       PHP Development
       WordPress
       Graphic Designing
       Logo
       Digital Marketing
       On Page and Off Page SEO
       PPC
       Content Development
       Corporate Training
       Classroom and Online Training
       Data Entry
       
      
     
      
      Training For College Campus 
      JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at [email protected] Duration: 1 week to 2 week
     
     
     
      
      Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter  
       
       
       
       
       
       
     
     
      
       Learn Tutorials
       Learn Java
       Learn Data Structures
       Learn C Programming
       Learn C++ Tutorial
       Learn C# Tutorial
       Learn PHP Tutorial
       Learn HTML Tutorial
       Learn JavaScript Tutorial
       Learn jQuery Tutorial
       Learn Spring Tutorial
      
      
       Our Websites
       Javatpoint.com
       Hindi100.com
       Lyricsia.com
       Quoteperson.com
       Jobandplacement.com
      
      
       Our Services
       Website Development
       Android Development
       Website Designing
       Digital Marketing
       Summer Training
       Industrial Training
       College Campus Training
      
      
       Contact
       Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3
       Noida, UP, 201301, India
       Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935
       Contact Us 
       Subscribe Us 
       Privacy Policy
       Sitemap
       
       About Me
      
     
     
      © Copyright 2011-2021 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
      
      
      
     
   
   
  
   
     
 

