

 
  
  CBSE - Central Board Of Secondary Education - Javatpoint
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
   
   
   
  
  
  ? SCROLL TO TOP 
  
    
    
      
      
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           
           
       
      
      
     
     
      
       
       
      
      
       
       
      
     
     
      
       
       Home 
       Terms 
       Aptitude 
       Reasoning 
       Verbal Ability 
       Full Forms 
       Differences 
       Interview Q 
       Projects 
       C# 
       Java 
       SQL 
       HTML 
       JavaScript 
       Quiz 
       Training 
       
       
     
     
     
     
      
     
     
      
      Terms 
      
      
      Terms 
      UPSC 
      ATM 
      DNA 
      MBA 
      DM 
      MSME 
      NASA 
      GDP 
      NGO 
      ED 
      CDS 
      WIFI 
      DRDO 
      MBBS 
      CEO 
      CID 
      CNG 
      CPU 
      OPD 
      ICSE 
      IPS 
      IAS 
      KYC 
      PhD 
      IPS 
      PCOD 
      CV 
      PWD 
      NEFT 
      RT-PCR 
      DSP 
      ICU 
      NCB 
      NTPC 
      ATP 
      IMPS 
      SDM 
      GPS - Global Positioning System 
      GST - Goods and Service Tax 
      B.Sc - Bachelor of Science 
      BCA - Bachelor of Computer Application 
      NCC - National Cadet Corps 
      CCTV 
      NDA 
      UNESCO 
      API - Application Programming Interface 
      ITI - Industrial Training Institute 
      NDA 
      IPO 
      HTML 
      CBSE 
      HDFC 
      ISO 
      UPS 
      IIT 
      
      
      
      
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       
        
       
      
      
       
        
        
         
           
            
            next ? 
            ? prev 
            CBSE - Central Board Of Secondary Education  There are numerous educational boards available in India that provide secondary-level education. That's why choosing the best among them is the major concern for the parents. A new education policy has recently been made in India, and keeping this point in mind, the great majority of today's parents are baffled by the many educational boards. However, boards are continuously making changes to stand with the present demands of the environment. In this article, we will discuss one of the most popular boards named CBSE in detail. About CBSE CBSE is the short form of the Central Board of Secondary Education. It is a well-known national board that was reconstituted on July 1, 1962. Its headquarters are located in New Delhi. It is a self-governing organization running under the complete supervision of the Indian government. CBSE has maintained a high level of education in India for many years. As a result of which it is the preference among children and their parents.  Concept Of Decentralization The board's administration is decentralized which helps in facilitating the effective execution of its responsibilities and maintaining education standards throughout the country. The regional offices of the board are established in various regions of the country to be more accessible for the schools which are linked with the board. However, the operations of these Regional Offices are regularly monitored and controlled by the headquarters in Delhi. Importance Understanding the importance will surely lead to a better decision. So here, we will discuss some of the major pros of the CBSE board that separate it from many other national and state education boards. 
            
            A degree-related certificate from the CBSE Board is accepted in all colleges and academic institutions across the country and gains priority. 
            CBSE ensures consistency among its students across India, and special thanks to a centralized education system adopted by the CBSE board, administered by a single governing authority. 
            The CBSE syllabus is more concise than those of other boards. 
            The CBSE board is well known internationally which makes it is simpler for the students to move abroad and continue their education from foreign colleges. 
            CBSE students of class 12th have an advantage over other boards students. This is because most of the higher-level examinations are conducted based on the CBSE board's syllabus. 
            Note: All KVs (Kendriya Vidyalayas), Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalayas, private schools, and most institutions accredited by the Indian government are affiliated with the CBSE board. CBSE Vs Other State Boards The CBSE board favors practice-based learning and emphasizes the importance of revising its curriculum to keep updated with the changing situations. Also, the CBSE evaluation format allows students to take on more difficult examinations. While on the other hand, every state in the country has its board, and at the most basic level, these state boards manage a huge network of schools that provide the students with various abilities. These state boards use a rotation-based curriculum, which includes regional language in most cases. Let's compare the CBSE with other boards based on various parameters: 
            
            Syllabus: The CBSE board offers an easy syllabus. On the other hand, the state board curriculum has a lot of content since it provides a lot of information and details that are complicated to understand. The CBSE curriculum is more concise, long-term, practical, and beneficial for further studies. 
            Learning: The CBSE emphasizes conceptual comprehension, whereas the state board, which has a lot of material, focuses on memorizing topics. If a student does not understand the concept, he will not be able to answer the questions in the CBSE. At the same time, the state board places importance on memorizing and delivering the topic to achieve a high score. 
            Marking System: The CBSE board exams are also thoroughly reviewed and conducted in a controlled environment. At the same time, in the state board examinations, the authorized person from the respective board takes control and allows students to improve their results. 
            Special Education: A provision Of CBSE "Special Education" is an essential provision under the CBSE board. Educators are suggested to be a counsellor to the students who face learning issues in class. After seeing, the counsellor may refer the particular student to a Special Education Teacher. The special education specialist may offer corrective lessons to those students individually. Papers for such students are prepared with the adjustments and changes to be friendly and easygoing. Some students may know the content but have trouble reading. So, in such a case, the question sheets would be read out by a special teacher so that students can respond to them. Book That CBSE Follows CBSE board follows the standard book, i.e. NCERT, and most competitive exams also follow the same syllabus contained in this book. A big advantage of the NCERT books is that they can be brought at a lower price and is almost useful in all national and state-level entrance examinations. CBSE 10th Syllabus In Brief Various subjects are included in class 10th like science (physics, chemistry, biology), social studies (History, Geography, Political Science and Economics), Mathematics, English, and an additional language as a compulsory subject. The syllabus of the 10th class has been reduced for the 2021-2022 batches and is available on the official website of the CBSE. For more information, one can go through the website. CBSE also included a very interesting concept last year for those who fear mathematics as a subject. Let's have a look at that. 
            
            The Concept Of Basic And Standard Mathematics for class 10th The CBSE board included basic and standard mathematics for the first time. From these, the students of class 10th have to choose one. The standard math is for all those students who wish to study mathematics as a subject in their classes 11th and 12th, whereas basic math is for those who do not want to take the subject further. And the inclusion of this concept will clear the thought of students from the beginning only. Students who pass basic mathematics are offered the standard math examination during divisional exams to continue with the subject. 
            Streams Available After 10th After class 10th, like other boards, the students of the CBSE board can choose any one from three primary streams for further study, i.e. science, arts, and commerce. The structure refers to the fundamental subjects given in each stream, which are also intimately connected to the future sectors to which they will drive you. Let's understand these streams in brief: 1. Science Stream The Science Stream is typically chosen by those who choose to continue their studies after +2 in a professional field. Chemistry, physics, mathematics, and biology are the four main subjects covered under this stream. Students can choose between Physics, Chemistry, and Mathematics, i.e. (PCM) and Physics, Chemistry, and Biology, i.e. (PCB). At the same time, English will be the compulsory subject, and one more subject is to opt for. This fifth subject can be a language or any other subject which is offered by the board as an optional subject. 2. Arts Stream Students in the arts and humanities stream have one of the widest ranges of options. The primary subjects in this curriculum are geography, history, and political science, with English and other linguistic subjects as compulsory subjects. This stream has a wide range of career options, including becoming an IAS officer or entering civil service, etc. 3. Commerce Stream If you like math and statistics, commerce might be the best fit for you. If you choose to commerce with Mathematics then the other subjects will be Accountancy, Business Studies, and Economics. On the other hand, if you opt for commerce without Mathematics then the other subjects will include Information Practices, Computer Science, Entrepreneurship, Fine Arts, and Physical Education. These are the two different varieties available in the commerce stream. Exams Conducted By CBSE Apart from conducting the class 10th and 12th examination, the CBSE board also conducted the major national level entrance exams like JEE, NEET-UG, and a few more for a long time. From the 2019 onwards batch, the right of conducting these examinations goes to the NTA. CBSE is conducting the board exams (class 10th and 12th) every year and also the CTET examination from recent years. Conclusion In this article, we covered the various aspects that make the CBSE board different from many other boards. We also went through its importance, the book it follows, and the various streams it provides after class 10th to pursue the 12th board. Hopefully, this information about CBSE will help while opting for the right board before moving ahead in academics. 
            
            
            Next Topic
            HDFC - Housing Development Finance Corporation Ltd 
             
            
            ? prev 
            next ? 
             
          
        
        
       
       
      
        
        For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel:  Join Now 
       
       
      Feedback 
       
       Send your Feedback to [email protected] 
       
       
      Help Others, Please Share 
       
       
       
      
       
       
       
       
       
       Learn Latest Tutorials 
        
         
         
           
          Splunk 
           
         
         
           
          SPSS 
           
         
         
           
          Swagger 
           
         
         
           
          Transact-SQL 
           
         
         
           
          Tumblr 
           
         
         
           
          ReactJS 
           
         
         
           
          Regex 
           
         
         
           
          Reinforcement Learning 
           
         
         
           
          R Programming 
           
         
         
           
          RxJS 
           
         
         
           
          React Native 
           
         
         
           
          Python Design Patterns 
           
         
         
           
          Python Pillow 
           
         
         
           
          Python Turtle 
           
         
         
           
          Keras 
           
        
       
       
       
       Preparation 
        
         
         
           
          Aptitude 
           
         
         
           
          Reasoning 
           
         
         
           
          Verbal Ability 
           
         
         
           
          Interview Questions 
           
         
         
           
          Company Questions 
           
        
       
       
       
       Trending Technologies 
        
         
         
           
          Artificial Intelligence 
           
         
         
           
          AWS 
           
         
         
           
          Selenium 
           
         
         
           
          Cloud Computing 
           
         
         
           
          Hadoop 
           
         
         
           
          ReactJS 
           
         
         
           
          Data Science 
           
         
         
           
          Angular 7 
           
         
         
           
          Blockchain 
           
         
         
           
          Git 
           
         
         
           
          Machine Learning 
           
         
         
           
          DevOps 
           
        
       
       
       
       B.Tech / MCA 
        
         
         
           
          DBMS 
           
         
         
           
          Data Structures 
           
         
         
           
          DAA 
           
         
         
           
          Operating System 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Network 
           
         
         
           
          Compiler Design 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Organization 
           
         
         
           
          Discrete Mathematics 
           
         
         
           
          Ethical Hacking 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Graphics 
           
         
         
           
          Software Engineering 
           
         
         
           
          Web Technology 
           
         
         
           
          Cyber Security 
           
         
         
           
          Automata 
           
         
         
           
          C Programming 
           
         
         
           
          C++ 
           
         
         
           
          Java 
           
         
         
           
          .Net 
           
         
         
           
          Python 
           
         
         
           
          Programs 
           
         
         
           
          Control System 
           
         
         
           
          Data Mining 
           
         
         
           
          Data Warehouse 
           
        
       
      
     
     
      
      
       
     
     
     
      
       
      
     
      
     
     
     
      
     
      
     
      
     
     
     
      
      Javatpoint Services 
      JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on [email protected], to get more information about given services. 
       
       Website Designing
       Website Development
       Java Development
       PHP Development
       WordPress
       Graphic Designing
       Logo
       Digital Marketing
       On Page and Off Page SEO
       PPC
       Content Development
       Corporate Training
       Classroom and Online Training
       Data Entry
       
      
     
      
      Training For College Campus 
      JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at [email protected] Duration: 1 week to 2 week
     
     
     
      
      Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter  
       
       
       
       
       
       
     
     
      
       Learn Tutorials
       Learn Java
       Learn Data Structures
       Learn C Programming
       Learn C++ Tutorial
       Learn C# Tutorial
       Learn PHP Tutorial
       Learn HTML Tutorial
       Learn JavaScript Tutorial
       Learn jQuery Tutorial
       Learn Spring Tutorial
      
      
       Our Websites
       Javatpoint.com
       Hindi100.com
       Lyricsia.com
       Quoteperson.com
       Jobandplacement.com
      
      
       Our Services
       Website Development
       Android Development
       Website Designing
       Digital Marketing
       Summer Training
       Industrial Training
       College Campus Training
      
      
       Contact
       Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3
       Noida, UP, 201301, India
       Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935
       Contact Us 
       Subscribe Us 
       Privacy Policy
       Sitemap
       
       About Me
      
     
     
      © Copyright 2011-2021 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
      
      
      
     
   
   
  
   
     
 

