

 
  
  COBOL Tutorial - Javatpoint
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
   
   
   
  
  
  ? SCROLL TO TOP 
  
    
    
      
      
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           
           
       
      
      
     
     
      
       
       
      
      
       
       
      
     
     
      
       
       Home 
       COBOL 
       C 
       C++ 
       C# 
       Java 
       SQL 
       HTML 
       CSS 
       JavaScript 
       XML 
       Ajax 
       Android 
       Cloud 
       Design Pattern 
       Projects 
       Interview Q 
       Comment 
       Forum 
       
       
     
     
     
     
      
     
     
      
      COBOL Tutorial 
      
      
      COBOL Tutorial 
      COBOL Installation 
      COBOL Program Structure 
      COBOL Coding Sheet 
      COBOL Divisions 
      COBOL Data Types 
      COBOL Verbs 
      COBOL Data Layout 
      Conditional Statements 
      Loop Statements 
      String Handling 
      Array/Table Processing 
      File Handling 
      File Access Mode 
      File Handling Verbs 
      Internal Sort 
      Database Interface 
      
      
      
      
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       
        
       
      
      
       
        
        
         
           
            
            next ? 
            COBOL Tutorial  COBOL is a Common Bussiness Oriented Language. It is a high level programming language. COBOL is used by the US Department of Defense, in a conference, formed CODASYL (Conference on Data Systems Language) to develop a language. COBOL is used for writing application programs, and we can't use it to write system software.  COBOL - Introduction COBOL is a Common Business Oriented Language. It is a high-level programming language. As the expanded acronym suggests, COBOL is designed for developing business, typically file-oriented applications. COBOL is used by the US Department of Defense, in a conference, formed CODASYL (Conference on Data Systems Language) to develop a language. COBOL is used for writing application programs, and we can't use it to write system software. This means you would not develop an operating system or a compiler using COBOL. How COBOL Works We must understand the way COBOL works. Computers only know machine code, a binary stream of 0s and 1s. The code of COBOL must be converted into machine code using a compiler. Run the program source through the compiler. The compiler first of all checks for any syntax errors and then converts it into machine language. Then the compiler creates an output file, which is known as a load module. This output file contains executable code in the form of 1s and 0s. History of COBOL COBOL language was one of the earliest high-level programming languages. During the 1950s, when the businesses were rising in the western part of the world, there was a need to automate various processes for ease of operation, and this gave birth to a high-level programming language destined for business data processing. 
            
            In 1959, the COBOL language was developed by Conference on Data Systems Languages (CODASYL). 
            The government printing office printed the COBOL specification as COBOL60 in 1960. 
            COBOL-61, which is the next version of COBOL, was released in 1961 with some revisions. 
            In 1968, COBOL was approved by ANSI (American National Standards Institute) as a standard language for commercial use. A version named COBOL-68. 
            It was again revised in 1974 and 1985 to develop subsequent versions that contain an additional set of features named COBOL-74 and COBOL-85, respectively. 
            And finally, in 2002, object-oriented COBOL was released, which could use encapsulated objects as a normal part of COBOL programming. 
            Features of COBOL Standard Language COBOL is a standard language that can be compiled and executed on systems such as IBM AS/400, personal computers, etc. Business Oriented COBOL is developed for business-oriented applications related to defense domain, financial domain, etc.  Structured Language Logical control structures are offered in COBOL, which makes it easier to read and modify. COBOL provides different divisions, so it is easy to debug. Robust Language COBOL is a robust language as its numerous testing, and debugging tools are available for almost all computer platforms. Simple Language COBOL is a simple language. No user-defined functions, no user-defined types, no pointers, and a limited scope of function. Self-documenting One of the major design goals for COBOL was to make it possible for non-programmers such as managers, supervisors, and users to read and understand COBOL code. Advantages of COBOL 
            
            COBOL is the first generally used high-level programming language. 
            It can handle huge data processing. 
            It is used as a documenting language. 
            The resolution of bugs is easier because it has an effective error message. 
            It is compatible with its past versions. 
            Prerequisite Before proceeding with this tutorial, you should have a basic knowledge of computer programming terminologies and JCL. A basic knowledge of any of the programming languages will help you get the concepts of COBOL programming and move fast on the learning track. Audience This tutorial is created for software programmers who would like to learn the basics of COBOL. This tutorial will provide enough understanding of COBOL programming language from where you can take yourself to a higher level of expertise. Problems We assure you that you will not find any difficulty while learning our COBOL tutorial. But if there is any mistake in this tutorial, kindly post the problem or error in the contact form so that we can improve it. 
            
            
            Next Topic
            COBOL Installation 
             
            
            next ? 
             
          
        
        
       
       
      
        
        For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel:  Join Now 
       
       
      Feedback 
       
       Send your Feedback to [email protected] 
       
       
      Help Others, Please Share 
       
       
       
      
       
       
       
       
       
       Learn Latest Tutorials 
        
         
         
           
          Splunk 
           
         
         
           
          SPSS 
           
         
         
           
          Swagger 
           
         
         
           
          Transact-SQL 
           
         
         
           
          Tumblr 
           
         
         
           
          ReactJS 
           
         
         
           
          Regex 
           
         
         
           
          Reinforcement Learning 
           
         
         
           
          R Programming 
           
         
         
           
          RxJS 
           
         
         
           
          React Native 
           
         
         
           
          Python Design Patterns 
           
         
         
           
          Python Pillow 
           
         
         
           
          Python Turtle 
           
         
         
           
          Keras 
           
        
       
       
       
       Preparation 
        
         
         
           
          Aptitude 
           
         
         
           
          Reasoning 
           
         
         
           
          Verbal Ability 
           
         
         
           
          Interview Questions 
           
         
         
           
          Company Questions 
           
        
       
       
       
       Trending Technologies 
        
         
         
           
          Artificial Intelligence 
           
         
         
           
          AWS 
           
         
         
           
          Selenium 
           
         
         
           
          Cloud Computing 
           
         
         
           
          Hadoop 
           
         
         
           
          ReactJS 
           
         
         
           
          Data Science 
           
         
         
           
          Angular 7 
           
         
         
           
          Blockchain 
           
         
         
           
          Git 
           
         
         
           
          Machine Learning 
           
         
         
           
          DevOps 
           
        
       
       
       
       B.Tech / MCA 
        
         
         
           
          DBMS 
           
         
         
           
          Data Structures 
           
         
         
           
          DAA 
           
         
         
           
          Operating System 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Network 
           
         
         
           
          Compiler Design 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Organization 
           
         
         
           
          Discrete Mathematics 
           
         
         
           
          Ethical Hacking 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Graphics 
           
         
         
           
          Software Engineering 
           
         
         
           
          Web Technology 
           
         
         
           
          Cyber Security 
           
         
         
           
          Automata 
           
         
         
           
          C Programming 
           
         
         
           
          C++ 
           
         
         
           
          Java 
           
         
         
           
          .Net 
           
         
         
           
          Python 
           
         
         
           
          Programs 
           
         
         
           
          Control System 
           
         
         
           
          Data Mining 
           
         
         
           
          Data Warehouse 
           
        
       
      
     
     
      
      
       
     
     
     
      
       
      
     
      
     
     
     
      
     
      
     
      
     
     
     
      
      Javatpoint Services 
      JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on [email protected], to get more information about given services. 
       
       Website Designing
       Website Development
       Java Development
       PHP Development
       WordPress
       Graphic Designing
       Logo
       Digital Marketing
       On Page and Off Page SEO
       PPC
       Content Development
       Corporate Training
       Classroom and Online Training
       Data Entry
       
      
     
      
      Training For College Campus 
      JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at [email protected] Duration: 1 week to 2 week
     
     
     
      
      Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter  
       
       
       
       
       
       
     
     
      
       Learn Tutorials
       Learn Java
       Learn Data Structures
       Learn C Programming
       Learn C++ Tutorial
       Learn C# Tutorial
       Learn PHP Tutorial
       Learn HTML Tutorial
       Learn JavaScript Tutorial
       Learn jQuery Tutorial
       Learn Spring Tutorial
      
      
       Our Websites
       Javatpoint.com
       Hindi100.com
       Lyricsia.com
       Quoteperson.com
       Jobandplacement.com
      
      
       Our Services
       Website Development
       Android Development
       Website Designing
       Digital Marketing
       Summer Training
       Industrial Training
       College Campus Training
      
      
       Contact
       Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3
       Noida, UP, 201301, India
       Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935
       Contact Us 
       Subscribe Us 
       Privacy Policy
       Sitemap
       
       About Me
      
     
     
      © Copyright 2011-2021 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
      
      
      
     
   
   
  
   
     
 

