

 
  
  Compatibility mode in Excel - javatpoint
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
   
   
   
  
  
  ? SCROLL TO TOP 
  
    
    
      
      
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           
           
       
      
      
     
     
      
       
       
      
      
       
       
      
     
     
      
       
       Home 
       Excel 
       MS Word 
       PowerPoint 
       C 
       C# 
       Java 
       PHP 
       HTML 
       SQL 
       PL/SQL 
       Python 
       Web Services 
       Quiz 
       Projects 
       Interview Q 
       Comment 
       Forum 
       Training 
       
       
     
     
     
     
      
     
     
      
      MS Excel Tutorial 
      
      
      Excel Tutorial 
      Workbook Window 
      Create & Open Workbooks 
      MS Excel Online 
      Excel vs Google Sheets 
      Office Button 
      Ribbon and Tabs 
      Features of Tabs 
      Quick Access Toolbar 
      Mini Toolbar 
      Title, Help, Zoom, View 
      
      
      Excel Worksheet 
      
      
      Worksheet, Row, Column 
      Moving on Worksheet 
      Enter Data 
      Select Data 
      Delete Data 
      Move Data 
      Copy Paste Data 
      Spell Check 
      Insert Symbols 
      
      
      Excel Calculation 
      
      
      Addition 
      Sigma Addition 
      Subtraction 
      Calculate Average 
      Sigma Average 
      
      
      Excel Fill Handle 
      
      
      Fill Handle 
      Fill Handle with Text 
      Text with Numbers 
      Fill Handle with Dates 
      
      
      Excel Formula 
      
      
      Create Formula 
      Fill Handle in Formula 
      Relative Referencing 
      Absolute Referencing 
      Instruction for Typing 
      Quick Excel Functions 
      
      
      Excel IF 
      
      
      If Function 
      If with Calculations 
      Excel COUNTIF 
      Advanced If 
      
      
      Excel Advanced 
      
      
      Excel Macros 
      Excel sumif 
      Excel vlookup 
      What is Pivot Table 
      Excel ISNA 
      Find & Remove Duplicates 
      Create drop-down List 
      Merge cells in Excel 
      
      
      Misc 
      
      
      How to enable macros in excel 
      How to calculate age in Excel 
      How to create a Pivot Table in excel 
      How to enable the Developer Tab in Excel 
      How to Calculate Standard Deviation in Excel 
      How to Calculate Time Difference in Excel 
      How to Freeze Cells in Excel 
      What-if Analysis in Excel 
      How To Insert Checkbox in MS Excel 
      How To Insert PDF in MS Excel 
      How to change the Date Format in Excel 
      How to compare two Excel sheet 
      How To Apply Filter In Excel 
      How To Move Columns In Excel 
      How to add or remove Hyperlink in Excel 
      How to calculate Mean in Excel 
      How to Separate text in Excel 
      How to recover a macro in Excel 
      How to recover a Corrupted Excel file 
      How to recover an Excel file 
      How to remove comma in Excel 
      How to sum a column in Excel 
      How to remove the filter in Excel 
      How to remove gridlines in Excel 
      How To Convert Excel To CSV 
      How To Create Table in Excel 
      How to Calculate IRR in Excel 
      How to Count Characters in Excel 
      How to Make an Excel Sheet 
      How to Replace Words in Excel 
      How to Sort by Date in Excel 
      How to hide formulas in Excel 
      How to subtract in excel 
      How to use the IF function in Excel 
      How To Create A Graph In Excel 
      How to use concatenate in Excel 
      How to spell check in Excel 
      How to Change Lowercase to Uppercase in Excel 
      How to Create a Dashboard in Excel 
      How to Delete Duplicate Rows in Excel 
      How to use sumifs formula in Excel 
      How to add page break in Excel 
      How to remove the page break in Excel 
      How to Convert Columns to Rows in Excel 
      How to Convert Number to Words in Excel 
      How to Make a Table in Excel 
      How to Put Tick Mark in Excel 
      How to Remove Passwords from Excel File 
      How to Wrap Text in Excel 
      How to insert comments in Excel 
      How to add/remove Password from Excel 
      How to use MS Excel 
      How to sort in Excel 
      How to record a macro in Excel 
      How Many Rows and Columns in Excel 2007 
      How to Search in Excel 
      How to add a text box in Excel 
      How to save Excel document 
      How to set background image in Excel 
      How to use COUNTIF function in Excel 
      How to import the data from CSV file in Excel 
      How to unlock scroll lock in Excel 
      What is a cell in Excel 
      Uses of MS Excel 
      How to Reduce Excel File Size 
      How to Save Excel File as PDF 
      ODS to Excel 
      How to lock cells in Excel 
      How to unlock cells in Excel 
      Hyperlink in Excel 
      How to compare two columns in Excel 
      Conditional formatting in Excel 
      How to define custom rules for conditional formatting in Excel 
      Data validation in Excel 
      Apply data validation in Excel 
      Remove spaces in Excel 
      How to Save Excel File 
      Watermark in Excel 
      How to unhide columns in Excel 
      How to delete blank rows in Excel 
      Excel round off formula 
      How to Add Watermark in Excel 
      How to Remove Watermark in Excel 
      Excel Save As Shortcut 
      Excel Shortcut Keys 
      Excel match function 
      HLOOKUP formula in Excel 
      What is the file extension for Excel 
      Offset function in Excel 
      Compound interest formula in Excel 
      Excel password remover 
      FV() function in Excel 
      MS Excel Definition 
      What is Excel 
      Excelity login 
      Income tax calculating formula in Excel 
      Google Excel Spreadsheet 
      Online Excel Viewer 
      Online Excel Editor 
      How to make pie charts in excel 
      How to calculate number of days between two dates in Excel 
      Excel Download 
      Download MS Office 2019 using command prompt 
      Download Windows and MS office activator 
      Excel Header and Footer 
      Excel to JPG 
      JPG to Excel 
      Salary slip format in Excel 
      How to count colored cells in Excel 
      Excel Substring formula 
      CSV to Excel 
      Word to Excel 
      Regression analysis in Excel 
      How to calculate CAGR in Excel 
      Excel to Word 
      Percentage formula in Excel 
      Mail merge in Excel 
      How to unhide rows in Excel 
      How to Split Cells in Excel 
      Current Date in Excel 
      Index function in Excel 
      How to remove formula in Excel 
      Excel Features 
      Flash Fill in Excel 
      How to convert Excel to JSON 
      Convert Excel to JSON using VBA code 
      Round formula in Excel 
      Excel formula 
      Ratio in Excel 
      Excel Delete Row Shortcut 
      Insert Column Excel Shortcut 
      Excel not equal to operator 
      Logical operators in Excel 
      Delete Data in Excel 
      Excel Slicer 
      Excel Difference Between Two Dates 
      Excel Filter Shortcut 
      Excel Charts 
      Excel text function 
      Excel LOOKUP() function 
      MS Excel Grade Formula 
      10 Disadvantages of Microsoft Excel 
      Shortcut Keys in Excel 2010 
      Advanced Formulas in Excel 
      Excel Merge Cells Shortcut 
      Excel Paste Special Shortcut 
      INDIRECT() function in Excel 
      What is Relative Reference in Excel 
      Excel Sum Shortcut 
      Redo Shortcut in Excel 
      Arrow key is not working in Excel 
      Type of charts in Excel 
      Nested If Function in Excel 
      Lower() in excel 
      Proper() in excel 
      Types of References in Excel 
      AND Function in Excel 
      How to do subtraction in Excel 
      Excel MAX() Function 
      How to delete a Sheet in Excel 
      How to Insert Chart in Excel 
      Excel ISERROR() function 
      Excel add-ins 
      IF() in excel 
      REPT() in excel 
      What is Formatting in Excel 
      OR Function in Excel 
      Solver in Excel 
      Excel AVERAGE() Function 
      Excel MIN() Function 
      Format Painter in Excel 
      COUNTA function in excel 
      Excel mid function 
      Excel right function 
      Excel Choose Function 
      How to Use RIGHT Function in Excel 
      NOT Function in Excel 
      Excel COUNT() Function 
      Line Chart Excel 
      Excel RAND() function 
      Excel find() function 
      Excel tricks 
      Dollar function in excel 
      Left formula in excel 
      Randbetween function in excel 
      ROUNDDOWN Function in Excel 
      Tenure Formula in Excel 
      Excel TODAY and NOW 
      How to unhide worksheet in Excel 
      Freeze panes in Excel 
      Excel PMT Function 
      NETWORKDAYS Formula in Excel 
      Pivot Chart in Excel 
      Excel Hide Shortcut 
      Unhide Shortcut in Excel 
      Range in Excel 
      Strikethrough in Excel 
      How to password protect an Excel sheet 
      Page Orientation in Excel 
      Area Chart in Excel 
      Bubble Chart Excel 
      Autofill in Excel 
      Convert rows to columns 
      Analysis ToolPak 
      Zoom In/Out in Excel 
      Excel Format Painter Shortcut 
      Excel Wrap Text Shortcut 
      Uppercase Shortcut in Excel 
      How to make a bar chart in Excel 
      JSON to Excel 
      Sparkline chart 
      Why MS Excel is Important 
      Waterfall Chart Excel 
      Excel IRR formula 
      Excel Pareto chart 
      Column Chart 
      Formatting Charts 
      Pie Chart 
      Doughnut Chart Excel 
      Scatter Plot Excel 
      Text to column in Excel 
      Excel IFERROR() function 
      Excel Median() function 
      Gantt Chart Excel 
      Consolidate data in Excel 
      Excel Strikethrough Shortcut 
      Flow Chart Excel 
      Organization Chart Excel 
      Excel box plot 
      Excel Transpose Function 
      Circular reference in Excel 
      Excel Filter Function 
      Excel VAR.S() Function 
      Email Workbook 
      Share Workbook 
      Correlation in Excel 
      How many sheets are there in excel workbook by default 
      What is Mod Function in Excel 
      Compatibility mode in Excel 
      How to unprotect Excel sheet without password 
      Adding Graphics 
      Translate Worksheet 
      Excel Large Function 
      Excel Rank Function 
      Cross Referencing in Excel 
      Using Themes in Excel 
      Excel IFNA Function 
      Excel TRIM Function 
      Excel DATEVALUE Function 
      Excel SUBSTITUTE Function 
      Special Symbols in Excel 
      
      
      Shortcut Keys 
      
      
      Excel Shortcut Keys 
      
      
      Interview Questions 
      
      
      Excel Interview 
      HR Interview 
      SQL Interview 
      PL/SQL Interview 
      
      
      
      
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       
        
       
      
      
       
        
        
         
           
            
            next ? 
            ? prev 
            Compatibility mode in Excel Compatibility mode is a viewing mode for the Excel files. An Excel document in compatibility mode is viewable by everyone in all versions of Excel (older and newer). There are several versions of Excel released till now. The document created in the newer version may not be compatible with the older release of Excel. It depends on the data stored in that Excel workbook. For example, a feature implemented in Excel 2016 is not compatible enough in Excel 2013 and would not display data properly. This chapter contains all the essential information for the compatibility mode along with the example using screenshots to step by step explanation. Compatibility issue An Excel file runs in compatibility mode after you save it in an older format of Excel. You can also face this compatibility issue if your Excel software has been upgraded to the newer version of Excel. But the files that you have created are not upgraded. You can run the compatibility checker to find which features and functionality are not available in the previously created file for the upgraded software. Thus, you can resolve it before sharing it with other users. Properties of compatibility mode for Excel file 
            
            If an Excel file is in compatibility mode, you can use any new feature or functionality that a newer version of Excel provides. 
            If you want to use all the features of Excel, you have to convert the file from compatibility mode to normal mode by changing the Excel file format to the current application version. 
            Save a document in compatibility mode Excel allows its users to save the document in compatibility mode. Compatibility mode applies to a file when you save a document for the older version of Excel. You can enter to compatibility mode when a document is created, especially for it.  To save an Excel document in compatibility mode, follow the steps below: Step 1: Create a document to learn how to save in compatibility mode. Step 2: Go to the File and then click Save as option.  The default format to save the Excel file is .xlsx if you simply save the file. Step 3: Choose a folder on your computer to save this Excel file.  The next step is to choose an older version format (.xls) of Excel to save the file in compatibility mode. Step 4: Click the Save as type dropdown list and choose Excel 97-2003 Workbook file format from the dropdown list.  Step 5: Provide the name of this file and click the Save button.  This Excel file is successfully saved in compatibility mode. Check if document is in compatibility mode An Excel file runs in compatibility mode after you save it in an older format of Excel. The Excel users can easily find if an Excel document is in compatibility mode for their Excel software. The document name at the top of the Excel file will look like this: filename.xls [Compatibility Mode] when you will open an Excel file. See that the below document is in compatibility mode, whose name is shown as testbook [Compatibility Mode] - Excel.  This was the document that we had created in previous steps. Find the compatibility mode of Excel document Suppose you receive an Excel document from someone else, you would not be aware of the version of Excel in which it has been created. By just seeing an Excel document, a user cannot find that which compatibility mode an Excel document is using. Excel offers a compatibility checker to check the compatibility mode of the document. Run this compatibility checker to check what compatibility mode is used by the document you have opened. It is helpful when you receive a document from someone else. Follow the steps to find the compatibility mode of an Excel document: Step 1: First of all, open the Excel document that is already in compatibility mode. We have this document that is already in compatibility mode.  Step 2: Now, click on the File option and then click the Info tab at the left of the Excel backscreen.  Step 3: Click the Check for Issues dropdown button and then select the Choose compatibility option from that list.  Step 4: You will get back to your document, where either convert your document in earlier version of Excel or use in the same format. See the compatibility mode that you are using for this document now. Leave the compatibility mode of Excel document When an Excel document is in compatibility mode, you might not be able to access all the functionality of your Excel in that workbook. So, to make the workbook fully functional, you can leave the compatibility mode to normal mode. This will help the users to get the fully functional and accessible Excel file. You should be aware with the following point before leaving the compatibility mode: 
            
            The user can leave the compatibility mode or you can say that convert the file from compatibility mode to normal mode. 
            By leaving from the compatibility mode, you can get all the features enabled for your file according to the current version of Excel. 
            After conversion, the original workbook will be deleted cannot be restored back. 
            Do not convert the document from compatibility mode if any other user is also working with that workbook in an older Excel version. Once the user leaves the compatibility mode, it will permanently change to the normal mode. Hence, Excel will also issue a warning regarding this that the document might look different after conversion. Following are the steps to leave the compatibility mode: Step 1: Open the targeted compatibility mode Excel file. My targeted Excel file is in compatibility mode.  Step 2: Now, just go to the File tab and click the Info at the left side of the Excel backscreen.  Step 3: Click the Convert Compatibility Mode button to change the file to normal mode temporarily.  Step 4: Click the OK without doing anything on this popup, and your file will leave the compatibility mode.  Step 5: Excel will display you a popup message that your file is successfully changed to the current file format. Click Yes to reopen the workbook to get the enhanced feature.  Step 6: You can also see that the Compatibility Mode has been removed from file name. It can now run in a newer version of Excel with all functionality.  One can leave the compatibility mode works by following these steps. Turn off the compatibility mode Sometimes, users face a new issue that all the Excel documents are opening in compatibility mode. However, they do not have all files designed for an older version of Excel. This type of issue can occur because of the default setting of Excel that may set to use the workbook in compatibility mode being an older version. If you are also facing this type of issue, don't worry, this issue can be resolved. We will brief you step by step: Step 1: Open MS Excel or open an existing Excel document. Step 2: Click the File menu and navigate to the More… and then Options option on the left side of the Excel backscreen.  Step 3: An Excel Options window panel will open, where go to the Save tab on this panel.  Step 4: Click on the dropdown button next to the Save files in this format and choose Excel workbook (.xlsx) format from the list.  Step 5: In the end, hit OK to save this change.  Your file will now open normally in the current version of Excel. 
            
            
            Next Topic
            How to unprotect Excel sheet without password 
             
            
            ? prev 
            next ? 
             
          
        
        
       
       
      
        
        For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel:  Join Now 
       
       
      Feedback 
       
       Send your Feedback to [email protected] 
       
       
      Help Others, Please Share 
       
       
       
      
       
       
       
       
       
       Learn Latest Tutorials 
        
         
         
           
          Splunk 
           
         
         
           
          SPSS 
           
         
         
           
          Swagger 
           
         
         
           
          Transact-SQL 
           
         
         
           
          Tumblr 
           
         
         
           
          ReactJS 
           
         
         
           
          Regex 
           
         
         
           
          Reinforcement Learning 
           
         
         
           
          R Programming 
           
         
         
           
          RxJS 
           
         
         
           
          React Native 
           
         
         
           
          Python Design Patterns 
           
         
         
           
          Python Pillow 
           
         
         
           
          Python Turtle 
           
         
         
           
          Keras 
           
        
       
       
       
       Preparation 
        
         
         
           
          Aptitude 
           
         
         
           
          Reasoning 
           
         
         
           
          Verbal Ability 
           
         
         
           
          Interview Questions 
           
         
         
           
          Company Questions 
           
        
       
       
       
       Trending Technologies 
        
         
         
           
          Artificial Intelligence 
           
         
         
           
          AWS 
           
         
         
           
          Selenium 
           
         
         
           
          Cloud Computing 
           
         
         
           
          Hadoop 
           
         
         
           
          ReactJS 
           
         
         
           
          Data Science 
           
         
         
           
          Angular 7 
           
         
         
           
          Blockchain 
           
         
         
           
          Git 
           
         
         
           
          Machine Learning 
           
         
         
           
          DevOps 
           
        
       
       
       
       B.Tech / MCA 
        
         
         
           
          DBMS 
           
         
         
           
          Data Structures 
           
         
         
           
          DAA 
           
         
         
           
          Operating System 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Network 
           
         
         
           
          Compiler Design 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Organization 
           
         
         
           
          Discrete Mathematics 
           
         
         
           
          Ethical Hacking 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Graphics 
           
         
         
           
          Software Engineering 
           
         
         
           
          Web Technology 
           
         
         
           
          Cyber Security 
           
         
         
           
          Automata 
           
         
         
           
          C Programming 
           
         
         
           
          C++ 
           
         
         
           
          Java 
           
         
         
           
          .Net 
           
         
         
           
          Python 
           
         
         
           
          Programs 
           
         
         
           
          Control System 
           
         
         
           
          Data Mining 
           
         
         
           
          Data Warehouse 
           
        
       
      
     
     
      
      
       
     
     
     
      
       
      
     
      
     
     
     
      
     
      
     
      
     
     
     
      
      Javatpoint Services 
      JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on [email protected], to get more information about given services. 
       
       Website Designing
       Website Development
       Java Development
       PHP Development
       WordPress
       Graphic Designing
       Logo
       Digital Marketing
       On Page and Off Page SEO
       PPC
       Content Development
       Corporate Training
       Classroom and Online Training
       Data Entry
       
      
     
      
      Training For College Campus 
      JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at [email protected] Duration: 1 week to 2 week
     
     
     
      
      Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter  
       
       
       
       
       
       
     
     
      
       Learn Tutorials
       Learn Java
       Learn Data Structures
       Learn C Programming
       Learn C++ Tutorial
       Learn C# Tutorial
       Learn PHP Tutorial
       Learn HTML Tutorial
       Learn JavaScript Tutorial
       Learn jQuery Tutorial
       Learn Spring Tutorial
      
      
       Our Websites
       Javatpoint.com
       Hindi100.com
       Lyricsia.com
       Quoteperson.com
       Jobandplacement.com
      
      
       Our Services
       Website Development
       Android Development
       Website Designing
       Digital Marketing
       Summer Training
       Industrial Training
       College Campus Training
      
      
       Contact
       Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3
       Noida, UP, 201301, India
       Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935
       Contact Us 
       Subscribe Us 
       Privacy Policy
       Sitemap
       
       About Me
      
     
     
      © Copyright 2011-2021 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
      
      
      
     
   
   
  
   
     
 

