

 
  
  Difference between Preemptive and Non-Preemptive Scheduling - javatpoint
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
   
   
   
  
  
  ? SCROLL TO TOP 
  
    
    
      
      
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           
           
       
      
      
     
     
      
       
       
      
      
       
       
      
     
     
      
       
       Home 
       OS 
       C 
       Java 
       PHP 
       HTML 
       CSS 
       Bootstrap 
       JavaScript 
       jQuery 
       jQuery UI 
       Quiz 
       Projects 
       Interview Q 
       Comment 
       Forum 
       Training 
       
       
     
     
     
     
      
     
     
      
      OS Tutorial 
      
      
      OS Tutorial 
      Types of OS 
      
      
      Process Management 
      
      
      Introduction 
      Attributes of a Process 
      Process States 
      Process Schedulers 
      Process Queues 
      Times Related to Process 
      CPU Scheduling 
      Scheduling Algorithms 
      FCFS Scheduling 
      Convoy Effect in FCFS 
      FCFS with overhead 
      SJF Scheduling 
      Burst Time Prediction 
      SRTF scheduling 
      SRTF GATE 2011 Example 
      Round Robin Scheduling 
      RR scheduling Example 
      HRRN Scheduling 
      HRNN Example 
      Priority Scheduling 
      Non Preemptive Priority 
      Preemptive Priority 
      SRTF:IO bound processes 
      
      
      Synchronization 
      
      
      Introduction 
      Critical Section Problem 
      Lock Variable Mechanism 
      TSL Mechanism 
      Priority Inversion in TSL 
      Turn Variable 
      Interested Variable 
      Paterson Solution 
      Without Busy Waiting 
      Sleep and Wake 
      Semaphore Introduction 
      Counting Semaphore 
      Problem on counting semaphore 
      Binary Semaphore 
      
      
      Deadlocks 
      
      
      Introduction 
      strategies Handling 
      Deadlock Prevention 
      Deadlock Avoidance 
      Resource Allocation Graph 
      Detection using RAG 
      Detection and Recovery 
      
      
      Memory Management 
      
      
      Introduction 
      Fixed Partitioning 
      Dynamic Partitioning 
      Compaction 
      Bit Map for Dynamic Partitioning 
      Linked List for Dynamic Partitioning 
      Partitioning Algorithms 
      GATE on Best Fit & First Fit 
      Need for Paging 
      Paging with Example 
      Binary Addresses 
      Physical & Logical Address 
      Page Table 
      Mapping from page table 
      Page Table Entry 
      Page Table Size 
      Finding Optimal Page Size 
      Virtual Memory 
      Look aside Buffer 
      GATE question on TLB 
      Demand Paging 
      Inverted Page Table 
      Page Replacement 
      Gate on LRU and FIFO 
      Numerical on LRU, FIFO 
      Beladys Anamoly 
      Segmentation 
      Paging VS Segmentation 
      Segmented Paging 
      
      
      File Management 
      
      
      Attributes of the File 
      Operations on the File 
      File Access Methods 
      Directory Structure 
      Single level Directory 
      Two level Directory 
      Tree structured Directory 
      Acyclic Graph Directories 
      File System 
      File System Structure 
      Master Boot Record 
      On Disk Data Structures 
      In memory Data structures 
      Directory Implementation 
      Allocation Methods 
      Contiguous Allocation 
      Linked List Allocation 
      File Allocation Table 
      Indexed Allocation 
      Linked Index Allocation 
      Inode 
      Free space Management 
      Disk Scheduling 
      FCFS Scheduling 
      SSTF Scheduling 
      SCAN and C-SCAN 
      Look and C-Look 
      Numerical on SSTF 
      Numerical on Disk 
      
      
      Misc 
      
      
      Functions of OS 
      Mobile OS 
      Swapping in OS 
      Threads in OS 
      Fedora Operating System 
      Uses of Operating System 
      Producer-Consumer problem 
      Dining Philosophers Problem 
      Readers Writers Problem 
      History Of OS 
      Banker's Algorithm in OS 
      What is the context switching in the operating system 
      Internal vs. External Fragmentation 
      Multiprocessing Operating system 
      Multiprogramming vs Multitasking 
      Network Operating System 
      Latest Operating System 
      System Calls in Operating System 
      Multitasking Operating System 
      Distributed Operating System 
      Fragmentation in Operating System 
      Multithreading Models in Operating system 
      Operating system services 
      Batch Operating System 
      Embedded Operating System 
      Time-Sharing vs Real-Time Operating System 
      Multi-User Operating System 
      Memory Management 
      Monolithic Structure of Operating System 
      MS-DOS Operating System 
      Spooling in Operating System 
      Network Operating System vs Distributed Operating System 
      Operating system vs Application software 
      System Software vs Operating System 
      Real-Time operating system 
      Booting in Operating System 
      Layered Structure of Operating System 
      Multiprogramming vs. Time Sharing Operating System 
      Distributed File System 
      Multiprogramming Operating System 
      Server Operating System 
      32 bit vs 64 bit Operating System 
      Single User Operating System 
      Process vs Program 
      Operating System Security 
      Components of Operating System 
      GUI Operating System 
      Android Operating System 
      Buffering in Operating System 
      Device Driver in Operating System 
      Best Operating System for Hacking 
      Clustered Operating System 
      Android vs Windows OS 
      Scheduler vs Dispatcher 
      Deadlock vs Starvation 
      Semaphore vs Monitor 
      Boot Block and Bad Block in Operating System 
      Hard and Soft Real-Time Operating System 
      Concurrency in Operating System 
      Microkernel in Operating System 
      Protection in Operating System 
      Benefits of Multithreading 
      Host vs Guest Operating System 
      Livelock in Operating System 
      Dual Mode Operations in Operating System 
      What is Access Token in Operating System 
      Deadlock Detection in Distributed Systems 
      CUI vs GUI 
      Monolithic vs layered Operating System 
      Mutex vs Semaphore 
      What is Interleaved Memory 
      Trap vs Interrupt in Operating System 
      Open-Source Operating System 
      Multiple Processors Scheduling in Operating System 
      Starvation and Aging in Operating Systems 
      Best Android Operating System for PC 
      Device Management in Operating System 
      Disk Controller in Operating System 
      Views of Operating System 
      Tasks in Real-Time Systems 
      What is RPC in Operating System 
      C-SCAN vs SSTF Disk Scheduling Algorithm 
      Look vs C-Look Disk Scheduling Algorithm 
      SCAN vs C-SCAN Disk Scheduling Algorithm 
      SCAN vs FCFS Disk Scheduling Algorithm 
      Lamport's Bakery Algorithm 
      Basic Disk vs Dynamic Disk 
      What is Zombie Process 
      FCFS vs SSTF Disk Scheduling Algorithm 
      LRU vs LFU Page Replacement Algorithm 
      SSTF vs C-LOOK Disk Scheduling Algorithm 
      C-LOOK vs C-SCAN Disk Scheduling Algorithm 
      Rotational Latency vs Disk Access Time in Disk Scheduling 
      SSTF vs LOOK Disk Scheduling Algorithm 
      Virtual vs Physical Address 
      Address binding in Operating System 
      Preemptive vs Non-Preemptive Scheduling 
      Properties of Operating System 
      What is Processor Affinity 
      
      
      MCQ 
      
      
      Operating System MCQ 
      OS MCQ Part-2 
      
      
      
      
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       
        
       
      
      
       
        
        
         
           
            
            next ? 
            ? prev 
            Difference between Preemptive and Non-Preemptive Scheduling In this article, you will learn the difference between preemptive and non-preemptive scheduling. But before discussing the differences, you need to know about preemptive and non-preemptive scheduling. What is Preemptive Scheduling? Preemptive scheduling is a method that may be used when a process switches from a running state to a ready state or from a waiting state to a ready state. The resources are assigned to the process for a particular time and then removed. If the resources still have the remaining CPU burst time, the process is placed back in the ready queue. The process remains in the ready queue until it is given a chance to execute again. When a high-priority process comes in the ready queue, it doesn't have to wait for the running process to finish its burst time. However, the running process is interrupted in the middle of its execution and placed in the ready queue until the high-priority process uses the resources. As a result, each process gets some CPU time in the ready queue. It improves the overhead of switching a process from running to ready state and vice versa, increasing preemptive scheduling flexibility. It may or may not include SJF and Priority scheduling. For example: Let us take the example of Preemptive Scheduling. We have taken P0, P1, P2, and P3 are the four processes. 
            
            
              
              Process 
              Arrival Time 
              CPU Burst time (in millisec.) 
              
              
              P0 
              3 
              2 
              
              
              P1 
              2 
              4 
              
              
              P2 
              0 
              6 
              
              
              P3 
              1 
              4 
              
            
              
            
            Firstly, the process P2 comes at time 0. So, the CPU is assigned to process P2. 
            When process P2 was running, process P3 arrived at time 1, and the remaining time for process P2 (5 ms) is greater than the time needed by process P3 (4 ms). So, the processor is assigned to P3. 
            When process P3 was running, process P1 came at time 2, and the remaining time for process P3 (3 ms) is less than the time needed by processes P1 (4 ms) and P2 (5 ms). As a result, P3 continues the execution. 
            When process P3 continues the process, process P0 arrives at time 3. P3's remaining time (2 ms) is equal to P0's necessary time (2 ms). So, process P3 continues the execution. 
            When process P3 finishes, the CPU is assigned to P0, which has a shorter burst time than the other processes. 
            After process P0 completes, the CPU is assigned to process P1 and then to process P2. 
            Advantages and disadvantages of Preemptive Scheduling There are various advantages and disadvantages of Preemptive scheduling. The advantages and disadvantages of non-preemptive scheduling are as follows: Advantages 
            
            It is a more robust method because a process may not monopolize the processor. 
            Each event causes an interruption in the execution of ongoing tasks. 
            It improves the average response time. 
            It is more beneficial when you use this method in a multi-programming environment. 
            The operating system ensures that all running processes use the same amount of CPU. 
            Disadvantages 
            
            It requires the use of limited computational resources. 
            It takes more time suspending the executing process, switching the context, and dispatching the new incoming process. 
            If several high-priority processes arrive at the same time, the low-priority process would have to wait longer. 
            What is Non-Preemptive Scheduling? Non-preemptive scheduling is a method that may be used when a process terminates or switches from a running to a waiting state. When processors are assigned to a process, they keep the process until it is eliminated or reaches a waiting state. When the processor starts the process execution, it must complete it before executing the other process, and it may not be interrupted in the middle. When a non-preemptive process with a high CPU burst time is running, the other process would have to wait for a long time, and that increases the process average waiting time in the ready queue. However, there is no overhead in transferring processes from the ready queue to the CPU under non-preemptive scheduling. The scheduling is strict because the execution process is not even preempted for a higher priority process. For example: Let's take the above preemptive scheduling example and solve it in a non-preemptive manner.  
            
            The process P2 comes at 0, so the processor is assigned to process P2 and takes (6 ms) to execute. 
            All of the processes, P0, P1, and P3, arrive in the ready queue in between. But all processes wait till process P2 finishes its CPU burst time. 
            After that, the process that comes after process P2, i.e., P3, is assigned to the CPU until it finishes its burst time. 
            When process P1 completes its execution, the CPU is given to process P0. 
            Advantages and disadvantages of Non-preemptive Scheduling There are various advantages and disadvantages of non-preemptive scheduling. The advantages and disadvantages of non-preemptive scheduling are as follows: Advantages 
            
            It provides a low scheduling overhead. 
            It is a very simple method. 
            It uses less computational resources. 
            It offers high throughput. 
            Disadvantages 
            
            It has a poor response time for the process. 
            A machine can freeze up due to bugs. 
            Main Differences between the Preemptive and Non-Preemptive Scheduling  Here, you will learn the main differences between Preemptive and Non-Preemptive Scheduling. Various differences between the Preemptive and Non-Preemptive Scheduling are as follows: 
            
            In preemptive scheduling, the CPU is assigned to the processes for a particular time period. In contrast, the CPU is assigned to the process until it removes and switches to the waiting state. 
            When a process with a high priority appears in the ready queue frequently in preemptive scheduling, the process with a low priority must wait for a long period and can starve. In contrast, when the CPU is assigned to the process with the high burst time, the processes with the shorter burst time can starve in non-preemptive scheduling. 
            When a higher priority process comes in the CPU, the running process in preemptive scheduling is halted in the middle of its execution. On the other hand, the running process in non-preemptive scheduling doesn't interrupt in the middle of its execution and waits until it is completed. 
            Preemptive scheduling is flexible in processing. On the other side, non-preemptive is strict. 
            Preemptive scheduling is quite flexible because critical processes are allowed to access the CPU because they come in the ready queue and no matter which process is currently running. Non-preemptive scheduling is tough because if an essential process is assigned to the ready queue, the CPU process is not be interrupted. 
            In preemptive scheduling, CPU utilization is more effective than non-preemptive scheduling. On the other side, in non-preemptive scheduling, the CPU utilization is not effective as preemptive scheduling. 
            Preemptive scheduling is very cost-effective because it ensures the integrity of shared data. In contrast, it is not in the situation of non-preemptive scheduling. 
            Head-to-head Comparison between the Preemptive and Non-Preemptive Scheduling Here, you will learn the head-to-head comparison between preemptive and non-preemptive scheduling. The main differences between preemptive and non-preemptive scheduling are as follows: 
            
            
              
              Preemptive Scheduling 
              Non-Preemptive Scheduling 
              
              
              The resources are assigned to a process for a long time period. 
              Once resources are assigned to a process, they are held until it completes its burst period or changes to the waiting state. 
              
              
              Its process may be paused in the middle of the execution. 
              When the processor starts the process execution, it must complete it before executing the other process, and it may not be interrupted in the middle. 
              
              
              When a high-priority process continuously comes in the ready queue, a low-priority process can starve. 
              When a high burst time process uses a CPU, another process with a shorter burst time can starve. 
              
              
              It is flexible. 
              It is rigid. 
              
              
              It is cost associated. 
              It does not cost associated. 
              
              
              It has overheads associated with process scheduling. 
              It doesn't have overhead. 
              
              
              It affects the design of the operating system kernel. 
              It doesn't affect the design of the OS kernel. 
              
              
              Its CPU utilization is very high. 
              Its CPU utilization is very low. 
              
              
              Examples: Round Robin and Shortest Remaining Time First 
              FCFS and SJF are examples of non-preemptive scheduling. 
              
            
            Conclusion It's not a case of preemptive scheduling being superior to non-preemptive scheduling or vice versa. It all depends on how a scheduling algorithm reduces average process waiting time while increasing CPU utilization 
            
            
            Next Topic
            Properties of Operating System 
             
            
            ? prev 
            next ? 
             
          
        
        
       
       
      
        
        For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel:  Join Now 
       
       
      Feedback 
       
       Send your Feedback to [email protected] 
       
       
      Help Others, Please Share 
       
       
       
      
       
       
       
       
       
       Learn Latest Tutorials 
        
         
         
           
          Splunk 
           
         
         
           
          SPSS 
           
         
         
           
          Swagger 
           
         
         
           
          Transact-SQL 
           
         
         
           
          Tumblr 
           
         
         
           
          ReactJS 
           
         
         
           
          Regex 
           
         
         
           
          Reinforcement Learning 
           
         
         
           
          R Programming 
           
         
         
           
          RxJS 
           
         
         
           
          React Native 
           
         
         
           
          Python Design Patterns 
           
         
         
           
          Python Pillow 
           
         
         
           
          Python Turtle 
           
         
         
           
          Keras 
           
        
       
       
       
       Preparation 
        
         
         
           
          Aptitude 
           
         
         
           
          Reasoning 
           
         
         
           
          Verbal Ability 
           
         
         
           
          Interview Questions 
           
         
         
           
          Company Questions 
           
        
       
       
       
       Trending Technologies 
        
         
         
           
          Artificial Intelligence 
           
         
         
           
          AWS 
           
         
         
           
          Selenium 
           
         
         
           
          Cloud Computing 
           
         
         
           
          Hadoop 
           
         
         
           
          ReactJS 
           
         
         
           
          Data Science 
           
         
         
           
          Angular 7 
           
         
         
           
          Blockchain 
           
         
         
           
          Git 
           
         
         
           
          Machine Learning 
           
         
         
           
          DevOps 
           
        
       
       
       
       B.Tech / MCA 
        
         
         
           
          DBMS 
           
         
         
           
          Data Structures 
           
         
         
           
          DAA 
           
         
         
           
          Operating System 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Network 
           
         
         
           
          Compiler Design 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Organization 
           
         
         
           
          Discrete Mathematics 
           
         
         
           
          Ethical Hacking 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Graphics 
           
         
         
           
          Software Engineering 
           
         
         
           
          Web Technology 
           
         
         
           
          Cyber Security 
           
         
         
           
          Automata 
           
         
         
           
          C Programming 
           
         
         
           
          C++ 
           
         
         
           
          Java 
           
         
         
           
          .Net 
           
         
         
           
          Python 
           
         
         
           
          Programs 
           
         
         
           
          Control System 
           
         
         
           
          Data Mining 
           
         
         
           
          Data Warehouse 
           
        
       
      
     
     
      
      
       
     
     
     
      
       
      
     
      
     
     
     
      
     
      
     
      
     
     
     
      
      Javatpoint Services 
      JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on [email protected], to get more information about given services. 
       
       Website Designing
       Website Development
       Java Development
       PHP Development
       WordPress
       Graphic Designing
       Logo
       Digital Marketing
       On Page and Off Page SEO
       PPC
       Content Development
       Corporate Training
       Classroom and Online Training
       Data Entry
       
      
     
      
      Training For College Campus 
      JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at [email protected] Duration: 1 week to 2 week
     
     
     
      
      Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter  
       
       
       
       
       
       
     
     
      
       Learn Tutorials
       Learn Java
       Learn Data Structures
       Learn C Programming
       Learn C++ Tutorial
       Learn C# Tutorial
       Learn PHP Tutorial
       Learn HTML Tutorial
       Learn JavaScript Tutorial
       Learn jQuery Tutorial
       Learn Spring Tutorial
      
      
       Our Websites
       Javatpoint.com
       Hindi100.com
       Lyricsia.com
       Quoteperson.com
       Jobandplacement.com
      
      
       Our Services
       Website Development
       Android Development
       Website Designing
       Digital Marketing
       Summer Training
       Industrial Training
       College Campus Training
      
      
       Contact
       Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3
       Noida, UP, 201301, India
       Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935
       Contact Us 
       Subscribe Us 
       Privacy Policy
       Sitemap
       
       About Me
      
     
     
      © Copyright 2011-2021 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
      
      
      
     
   
   
  
   
     
 

