

 
  
  Difference between Monolithic and layered Operating System - javatpoint
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
   
   
   
  
  
  ? SCROLL TO TOP 
  
    
    
      
      
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           
           
       
      
      
     
     
      
       
       
      
      
       
       
      
     
     
      
       
       Home 
       OS 
       C 
       Java 
       PHP 
       HTML 
       CSS 
       Bootstrap 
       JavaScript 
       jQuery 
       jQuery UI 
       Quiz 
       Projects 
       Interview Q 
       Comment 
       Forum 
       Training 
       
       
     
     
     
     
      
     
     
      
      OS Tutorial 
      
      
      OS Tutorial 
      Types of OS 
      
      
      Process Management 
      
      
      Introduction 
      Attributes of a Process 
      Process States 
      Process Schedulers 
      Process Queues 
      Times Related to Process 
      CPU Scheduling 
      Scheduling Algorithms 
      FCFS Scheduling 
      Convoy Effect in FCFS 
      FCFS with overhead 
      SJF Scheduling 
      Burst Time Prediction 
      SRTF scheduling 
      SRTF GATE 2011 Example 
      Round Robin Scheduling 
      RR scheduling Example 
      HRRN Scheduling 
      HRNN Example 
      Priority Scheduling 
      Non Preemptive Priority 
      Preemptive Priority 
      SRTF:IO bound processes 
      
      
      Synchronization 
      
      
      Introduction 
      Critical Section Problem 
      Lock Variable Mechanism 
      TSL Mechanism 
      Priority Inversion in TSL 
      Turn Variable 
      Interested Variable 
      Paterson Solution 
      Without Busy Waiting 
      Sleep and Wake 
      Semaphore Introduction 
      Counting Semaphore 
      Problem on counting semaphore 
      Binary Semaphore 
      
      
      Deadlocks 
      
      
      Introduction 
      strategies Handling 
      Deadlock Prevention 
      Deadlock Avoidance 
      Resource Allocation Graph 
      Detection using RAG 
      Detection and Recovery 
      
      
      Memory Management 
      
      
      Introduction 
      Fixed Partitioning 
      Dynamic Partitioning 
      Compaction 
      Bit Map for Dynamic Partitioning 
      Linked List for Dynamic Partitioning 
      Partitioning Algorithms 
      GATE on Best Fit & First Fit 
      Need for Paging 
      Paging with Example 
      Binary Addresses 
      Physical & Logical Address 
      Page Table 
      Mapping from page table 
      Page Table Entry 
      Page Table Size 
      Finding Optimal Page Size 
      Virtual Memory 
      Look aside Buffer 
      GATE question on TLB 
      Demand Paging 
      Inverted Page Table 
      Page Replacement 
      Gate on LRU and FIFO 
      Numerical on LRU, FIFO 
      Beladys Anamoly 
      Segmentation 
      Paging VS Segmentation 
      Segmented Paging 
      
      
      File Management 
      
      
      Attributes of the File 
      Operations on the File 
      File Access Methods 
      Directory Structure 
      Single level Directory 
      Two level Directory 
      Tree structured Directory 
      Acyclic Graph Directories 
      File System 
      File System Structure 
      Master Boot Record 
      On Disk Data Structures 
      In memory Data structures 
      Directory Implementation 
      Allocation Methods 
      Contiguous Allocation 
      Linked List Allocation 
      File Allocation Table 
      Indexed Allocation 
      Linked Index Allocation 
      Inode 
      Free space Management 
      Disk Scheduling 
      FCFS Scheduling 
      SSTF Scheduling 
      SCAN and C-SCAN 
      Look and C-Look 
      Numerical on SSTF 
      Numerical on Disk 
      
      
      Misc 
      
      
      Functions of OS 
      Mobile OS 
      Swapping in OS 
      Threads in OS 
      Fedora Operating System 
      Uses of Operating System 
      Producer-Consumer problem 
      Dining Philosophers Problem 
      Readers Writers Problem 
      History Of OS 
      Banker's Algorithm in OS 
      What is the context switching in the operating system 
      Internal vs. External Fragmentation 
      Multiprocessing Operating system 
      Multiprogramming vs Multitasking 
      Network Operating System 
      Latest Operating System 
      System Calls in Operating System 
      Multitasking Operating System 
      Distributed Operating System 
      Fragmentation in Operating System 
      Multithreading Models in Operating system 
      Operating system services 
      Batch Operating System 
      Embedded Operating System 
      Time-Sharing vs Real-Time Operating System 
      Multi-User Operating System 
      Memory Management 
      Monolithic Structure of Operating System 
      MS-DOS Operating System 
      Spooling in Operating System 
      Network Operating System vs Distributed Operating System 
      Operating system vs Application software 
      System Software vs Operating System 
      Real-Time operating system 
      Booting in Operating System 
      Layered Structure of Operating System 
      Multiprogramming vs. Time Sharing Operating System 
      Distributed File System 
      Multiprogramming Operating System 
      Server Operating System 
      32 bit vs 64 bit Operating System 
      Single User Operating System 
      Process vs Program 
      Operating System Security 
      Components of Operating System 
      GUI Operating System 
      Android Operating System 
      Buffering in Operating System 
      Device Driver in Operating System 
      Best Operating System for Hacking 
      Clustered Operating System 
      Android vs Windows OS 
      Scheduler vs Dispatcher 
      Deadlock vs Starvation 
      Semaphore vs Monitor 
      Boot Block and Bad Block in Operating System 
      Hard and Soft Real-Time Operating System 
      Concurrency in Operating System 
      Microkernel in Operating System 
      Protection in Operating System 
      Benefits of Multithreading 
      Host vs Guest Operating System 
      Livelock in Operating System 
      Dual Mode Operations in Operating System 
      What is Access Token in Operating System 
      Deadlock Detection in Distributed Systems 
      CUI vs GUI 
      Monolithic vs layered Operating System 
      Mutex vs Semaphore 
      What is Interleaved Memory 
      Trap vs Interrupt in Operating System 
      Open-Source Operating System 
      Multiple Processors Scheduling in Operating System 
      Starvation and Aging in Operating Systems 
      Best Android Operating System for PC 
      Device Management in Operating System 
      Disk Controller in Operating System 
      Views of Operating System 
      Tasks in Real-Time Systems 
      What is RPC in Operating System 
      C-SCAN vs SSTF Disk Scheduling Algorithm 
      Look vs C-Look Disk Scheduling Algorithm 
      SCAN vs C-SCAN Disk Scheduling Algorithm 
      SCAN vs FCFS Disk Scheduling Algorithm 
      Lamport's Bakery Algorithm 
      Basic Disk vs Dynamic Disk 
      What is Zombie Process 
      FCFS vs SSTF Disk Scheduling Algorithm 
      LRU vs LFU Page Replacement Algorithm 
      SSTF vs C-LOOK Disk Scheduling Algorithm 
      C-LOOK vs C-SCAN Disk Scheduling Algorithm 
      Rotational Latency vs Disk Access Time in Disk Scheduling 
      SSTF vs LOOK Disk Scheduling Algorithm 
      Virtual vs Physical Address 
      Address binding in Operating System 
      Preemptive vs Non-Preemptive Scheduling 
      Properties of Operating System 
      What is Processor Affinity 
      
      
      MCQ 
      
      
      Operating System MCQ 
      OS MCQ Part-2 
      
      
      
      
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       
        
       
      
      
       
        
        
         
           
            
            next ? 
            ? prev 
            Difference between Monolithic and layered Operating System In this article, you will learn the difference between monolithic and layered operating systems. But before discussing this, you must know about monolithic and layered operating systems with their advantages and disadvantages.  What is the Monolithic Operating System? It is a very simple operating system in which file management, device management, process management, and memory management are all controlled directly from the kernel. All of these components, including file management and memory management, are located within the kernel. It is also known as the monolithic kernel. It is an old type of operating system. They were used in banks to do small tasks such as batch processing and time-sharing. The monolithic kernel serves as a virtual machine that manages all hardware components. It is not the same as a microkernel, which has limited tasks. There are two parts to a microkernel: kernel space and userspace. Both of these components communicate with others via IPC (Inter-process communication). The benefit of using a microkernel is that if one server fails, the other takes control. Monolithic architecture operating systems were first used in the 1970s. Monolithic operating systems have three major layers: the application layer, the monolithic kernel, and the hardware layer. Every application in these operating systems has its own address space. As a result, the applications are safer. The kernel manages the operating system services, including the file system, memory manager, and CPU scheduler. Advantages and disadvantages of Monolithic operating system There are various advantages and disadvantages of a monolithic operating system. Some of them are as follows: Advantages 
            
            The monolithic kernel runs quickly because of memory management, file management, process scheduling, etc. These are all implemented in the same address space. 
            Its structures are easy and simple. The kernel contains all of the components required for processing. 
            All of the components may interact directly with each other's and also with the kernel. 
            It works better for performing smaller tasks because it may handle limited resources. 
            Disadvantages 
            
            Monolithic OS has more tendency to generate errors and bugs. It's because user programs use the same address spaces as the kernel. 
            It isn't easy to port code written in the monolithic operating system. 
            It is very difficult to add and remove features from a monolithic operating system. All of the code must be modified and recompiled to add or remove a feature. 
            What is a Layered Operating System? An operating system with different layers for handling system software and user software is known as a layered operating system. The lower layers are the responsibility of core system software, while the above layers are responsible for handling application software. A layered operating system that has divided into multiple layers, and each layer serves as a certain task. The goal of developing layered operating systems is to get around monolithic operating systems' limitations. It was created to improve existing structures such as UNIX's Monolithic and Simple structures (MS-DOS).  There are mainly six layers in the layered operating system. These layers are as follows: 1. Hardware The OS architecture's the lowest layer, and it is where the hardware devices are handled. 2. CPU Scheduling It manages the scheduling tasks and schedules the processes for the CPU. 3. Memory Management It manages the memory. It moves processes from disk to the primary memory for execution and returns the executed programs to disk. 4. Process Management It handles the processes, and it also assigns the CPU to execute processes. 5. Input-Output Buffer It allows the users to interface with the system and controls IO device buffers, and ensure that IO devices work properly. 5. User Programs It is associated with the user programs like word processors, browsers, etc. All the programs are handled in this layer. Advantages and disadvantages of layered operating system There are various advantages and disadvantages of a layered operating system. Some of the advantages and disadvantages are as follows: Advantages 1. Easy Debugging It is very simple to debug because the layers are discrete. If an error happens in the CPU scheduling layer, the developer may only debug that layer. 2. Modularity This design supports modularity because each layer only executes tasks it is scheduled to perform. 3. Abstraction Each layer is concerned with its own set of functions. As a result, the functions and implementations of the other layer are abstract to it. 4. Easy update A modification in one layer does not affect the other layers. Disadvantages 1. Complex and better implementation Layer layout is important because a layer can utilize the services of the layers below it. For example, the backup storage layer uses the memory management layer's services, so it must be stored beneath the memory management layer. 2. Slower in execution When one layer wishes to interact with another, it sends a request that must traverse all layers between the two layers to be fulfilled. It enhances response time, which is faster than the Monolithic system. As a result, increasing the number of layers may lead to a very inefficient design. Main differences between the monolithic and layered operating system Here, you will learn the main differences between the monolithic and the layered operating system. There are various main differences between the monolithic and the layered operating system. Some of the differences are as follows: 
            
            A monolithic operating system is one in which the complete operating system operates in the kernel space. On the other hand, A layered operating system that has divided into multiple layers, and each layer serves as a specific task. 
            There are mainly three layers in the monolithic operating system. In contrast, a layered operating system has multiple layers. 
            Head-to-head comparison between the monolithic and layered operating system Here, you will learn the head-to-head comparison between the monolithic and the layered operating system. There are various comparisons between the monolithic and the layered operating system. Some of them are as follows: 
            
            
              
              Features 
              Monolithic 
              Layered Operating System 
              
              
              Definition 
              It is one in which the complete operating system operates in the kernel space. 
              A layered operating system that has divided into multiple layers, and each layer serves as a specific task. 
              
              
              Number of levels 
              There are mainly three layers in the monolithic operating system. 
              There are multiple layers in layered operating systems. 
              
            
            Conclusion There are two types of operating systems: monolithic and layered. The monolithic operating systems run in kernel space. In contrast, a layered operating system that has divided into multiple layers, and each of these layers serve as a specific task. 
            
            
            Next Topic
            Mutex vs Semaphore 
             
            
            ? prev 
            next ? 
             
          
        
        
       
       
      
        
        For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel:  Join Now 
       
       
      Feedback 
       
       Send your Feedback to [email protected] 
       
       
      Help Others, Please Share 
       
       
       
      
       
       
       
       
       
       Learn Latest Tutorials 
        
         
         
           
          Splunk 
           
         
         
           
          SPSS 
           
         
         
           
          Swagger 
           
         
         
           
          Transact-SQL 
           
         
         
           
          Tumblr 
           
         
         
           
          ReactJS 
           
         
         
           
          Regex 
           
         
         
           
          Reinforcement Learning 
           
         
         
           
          R Programming 
           
         
         
           
          RxJS 
           
         
         
           
          React Native 
           
         
         
           
          Python Design Patterns 
           
         
         
           
          Python Pillow 
           
         
         
           
          Python Turtle 
           
         
         
           
          Keras 
           
        
       
       
       
       Preparation 
        
         
         
           
          Aptitude 
           
         
         
           
          Reasoning 
           
         
         
           
          Verbal Ability 
           
         
         
           
          Interview Questions 
           
         
         
           
          Company Questions 
           
        
       
       
       
       Trending Technologies 
        
         
         
           
          Artificial Intelligence 
           
         
         
           
          AWS 
           
         
         
           
          Selenium 
           
         
         
           
          Cloud Computing 
           
         
         
           
          Hadoop 
           
         
         
           
          ReactJS 
           
         
         
           
          Data Science 
           
         
         
           
          Angular 7 
           
         
         
           
          Blockchain 
           
         
         
           
          Git 
           
         
         
           
          Machine Learning 
           
         
         
           
          DevOps 
           
        
       
       
       
       B.Tech / MCA 
        
         
         
           
          DBMS 
           
         
         
           
          Data Structures 
           
         
         
           
          DAA 
           
         
         
           
          Operating System 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Network 
           
         
         
           
          Compiler Design 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Organization 
           
         
         
           
          Discrete Mathematics 
           
         
         
           
          Ethical Hacking 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Graphics 
           
         
         
           
          Software Engineering 
           
         
         
           
          Web Technology 
           
         
         
           
          Cyber Security 
           
         
         
           
          Automata 
           
         
         
           
          C Programming 
           
         
         
           
          C++ 
           
         
         
           
          Java 
           
         
         
           
          .Net 
           
         
         
           
          Python 
           
         
         
           
          Programs 
           
         
         
           
          Control System 
           
         
         
           
          Data Mining 
           
         
         
           
          Data Warehouse 
           
        
       
      
     
     
      
      
       
     
     
     
      
       
      
     
      
     
     
     
      
     
      
     
      
     
     
     
      
      Javatpoint Services 
      JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on [email protected], to get more information about given services. 
       
       Website Designing
       Website Development
       Java Development
       PHP Development
       WordPress
       Graphic Designing
       Logo
       Digital Marketing
       On Page and Off Page SEO
       PPC
       Content Development
       Corporate Training
       Classroom and Online Training
       Data Entry
       
      
     
      
      Training For College Campus 
      JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at [email protected] Duration: 1 week to 2 week
     
     
     
      
      Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter  
       
       
       
       
       
       
     
     
      
       Learn Tutorials
       Learn Java
       Learn Data Structures
       Learn C Programming
       Learn C++ Tutorial
       Learn C# Tutorial
       Learn PHP Tutorial
       Learn HTML Tutorial
       Learn JavaScript Tutorial
       Learn jQuery Tutorial
       Learn Spring Tutorial
      
      
       Our Websites
       Javatpoint.com
       Hindi100.com
       Lyricsia.com
       Quoteperson.com
       Jobandplacement.com
      
      
       Our Services
       Website Development
       Android Development
       Website Designing
       Digital Marketing
       Summer Training
       Industrial Training
       College Campus Training
      
      
       Contact
       Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3
       Noida, UP, 201301, India
       Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935
       Contact Us 
       Subscribe Us 
       Privacy Policy
       Sitemap
       
       About Me
      
     
     
      © Copyright 2011-2021 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
      
      
      
     
   
   
  
   
     
 

