

 
  
  Elementary Matrix in Discrete Mathematics - javatpoint
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
   
   
   
  
  
  ? SCROLL TO TOP 
  
    
    
      
      
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           
           
       
      
      
     
     
      
       
       
      
      
       
       
      
     
     
      
       
       Home 
       DBMS 
       DS 
       DMS 
       DAA 
       Graph Theory 
       Control System 
       Aptitude 
       Selenium 
       Kotlin 
       C# 
       HTML 
       CSS 
       JavaScript 
       jQuery 
       Quiz 
       Projects 
       Interview Q 
       Comment 
       Forum 
       Training 
       
       
     
     
     
     
      
     
     
      
      Discrete Mathematics 
      
      
      Discrete Mathematics 
      
      
      Sets Theory 
      
      
      Sets Introduction 
      Types of Sets 
      Sets Operations 
      Algebra of Sets 
      Multisets 
      Inclusion-Exclusion Principle 
      Mathematical Induction 
      
      
      Relations 
      
      
      Binary Relation 
      Representation of Relations 
      Composition of Relations 
      Types of Relations 
      Closure Properties of Relations 
      Equivalence Relations 
      Partial Ordering Relations 
      
      
      Functions & Algorithms 
      
      
      Functions 
      Types of Functions 
      Identity Functions 
      Composition of Functions 
      Mathematical Functions 
      Algorithms & Functions 
      
      
      Logic & Propositional 
      
      
      Propositions & Compound Statements 
      Basic Logical Operations 
      Conditional & Biconditional Statements 
      Tautologies & Contradictions 
      Predicate Logic 
      Normal Forms 
      
      
      Counting Techniques 
      
      
      Basic Counting Principles 
      Permutations & Combinations 
      Pigeonhole Principle 
      
      
      Recurrence Relations 
      
      
      Recurrence Relations 
      Linear Recurrence Relations with Constant Coefficients 
      Particular Solution 
      Total Solution 
      Generating Functions 
      
      
      Probability Theory 
      
      
      Probability 
      Addition Theorem 
      Multiplication Theorem 
      Conditional Probability 
      
      
      Graph Theory 
      
      
      Introduction of Graphs 
      Types of Graphs 
      Representation of Graphs 
      Isomorphic and Homeomorphic Graphs 
      Regular and Bipartite Graphs 
      Planar and Non-Planar Graphs 
      Dijkstra's Algorithm 
      Travelling Salesman Problem 
      
      
      Binary Trees 
      
      
      Introduction of Trees 
      Binary Trees 
      Traversing Binary Trees 
      Binary Search Trees 
      Minimum Spanning Tree 
      
      
      Operator & Postulates 
      
      
      Binary Operation 
      Property of Binary Operations 
      
      
      Group Theory 
      
      
      SemiGroup 
      Group 
      SubGroup 
      Normal Subgroup 
      
      
      Ordered Sets & Lattices 
      
      
      Partially Ordered Sets 
      Hasse Diagrams 
      Lattices 
      
      
      Boolean Algebra 
      
      
      Boolean Algebra 
      Boolean Expression 
      Canonical Forms 
      Logic Gates & Circuits 
      Karnaugh Maps 
      
      
      Misc 
      
      
      Proof of De Morgan's Law 
      Discrete mathematics for Computer Science 
      Abelian Groups in Discrete Mathematics 
      Applications of Discrete Mathematics in Computer Science 
      Rings in Discrete Mathematics 
      Order of Group in Discrete Mathematics 
      Principle of Duality in Discrete Mathematics 
      Atomic Propositions in Discrete Mathematics 
      Applications of Tree in Discrete Mathematics 
      Quantifiers 
      Algebraic Structure 
      Counting principle 
      Bijective Function in Discrete Mathematics 
      Multinomial Theorem 
      Lagrange's Mean Value Theorem 
      Cauchy's Mean Value Theorem 
      Rolle's Mean Value Theorem 
      Semantic difference between Set and Type 
      Application of Group Theory in Discrete Mathematics 
      Directed and Undirected graph in Discrete Mathematics 
      Bayes Formula for Conditional probability 
      Difference between Function and Relation in Discrete Mathematics 
      Recursive functions in discrete mathematics 
      Arguments in Discrete Mathematics 
      Elementary Matrix in Discrete Mathematics 
      Hypergeometric Distribution in Discrete Mathematics 
      
      
      DMS MCQ 
      
      
      Discrete Matehmatics MCQ 
      
      
      
      
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       
        
       
      
      
       
        
        
         
           
            
            next ? 
            ? prev 
            Elementary Matrix in Discrete Mathematics To learn the elementary matrix, we have to first learn about the matrix and identity matrix. After that, we can understand the concept of an elementary matrix. Matrix The matrix can be described as a set of numbers, which are arranged in rows and columns. These numbers are known as the entries or elements of the matrix. The square brackets are used to cover these types of elements. Suppose there is n number of rows and m number of columns. In this case, the matrix will be known as n by m matrix and can be written as "n * m". There is also a square matrix n*n, which can be described as a collection of n rows and n columns of order n. For example: In this example, we will show a 3*3 matrix. Solution: 3*3 matrix means there are 3 rows and 3 columns. That means total 9 elements. The 3*3 matrix is described as follows:  Identity Matrix An identity matrix can be described as a square matrix of any order in which all the elements of main diagonal will contain the value 1, and all the other elements will contain the value 0. The order of an identity matrix will always be n. So we can say that the dimension of an identity matrix is n * n. That means the amount of rows and columns is always equal in this matrix. The representation of an identity matrix with different dimensions is described as below:  Elementary Matrix The elementary matrix is also a type of square matrix. The elementary matrix and identity matrix are similar to each other. The only difference is that there will be one elementary rows or columns operation among three on the identity matrix in the elementary matrix. The rows operations in an elementary matrix are described as follows: R1: Multiply the element of one row with a non-zero real number. R2: Swapping two rows R3: Adding of a constant k time one row to another row. Here R1, R2, R3 are used to represent the row operations. When we apply the row operation to any matrix, then it will be known as the elementary row operations. In contrast, the columns operations in an elementary matrix are described as follows: C1: Multiply the element of one column with a non-zero real number. C2: Swapping two columns C3: Adding of a constant k time one column to another column. Here C1, C2, C3 are used to represent the column operations. When we apply the column operation to any matrix, then it will be known as the elementary column operations. As we know that the elementary matrix is obtained from the identity matrix, and the identity matrix is always square. That's why the elementary matrix will also be square always. Example: In this example, we will show four elementary matrices and the operations that are used to generate these matrices. Solution: 
            
            The following matrix will be generated by multiplying the second row of identity matrix (I2) by -3.  
            The following matrix will be generated by interchanging the second and fourth rows of identity matrix (I4).  
            The following matrix will be generated by adding three times the third row of an identity matrix (I3) to the first row.  
            The following matrix will be generated by multiplying the first row of an identity matrix (I3) by 1.  
            The general linear group of the invertible matrices can be generated with the help of an elementary matrix. The elementary row operation will be represented when the elementary matrix performs the left multiplication or pre multiplication. The elementary column operation will be represented when the elementary matrix performs the right multiplication or post multiplication. The Gaussian elimination uses the elementary row operation so that it can reduce the matrix to row echelon form. The elementary row operations are also used by the gauss Jordan elimination so that they can further reduce the matrix to row echelon form. The examples of elementary row operations are described as follows: Example: In this example, we will consider a matrix A, which is given as follows:  In this matrix A, we will perform the following elementary row operations like this:  In this elementary row operation, the elementary matrix will correspond in the following way:  We can see that we will get the following matrix when the same elementary row operation is performed on identity matrix I. The result of multiplication of EA and the elementary row operation on matrix A is the same. The multiplication of E and A is described as follows:  For the other elementary row operation, the same is also true. We can also perform the inverse operation on every elementary matrix. If we do the inverse of an elementary matrix, it will also be the elementary matrix. We can prove this concept by performing the reverse row operation on the identity matrix. The reverse row operations are described as follows: 
            
            The reverse of Ri ? kRi will be Ri ? 1/k Ri. 
            The reverse of Ri ? kRj + Ri will be Ri ? ?kRj + Ri. 
            The reverse of Ri ? Rj will be Ri ? Rj. 
            We can perform the elementary row transformation by using the elementary matrices. It is also used to provide a constructive tool that can be used to find out the inverse matrix and also determine the LU-decomposition. The examples of elementary matrices and their inverse are described as follows, and we can check every matrix by multiplying the matrices. If the matrices are inverse, their multiplication will be I.  The elementary matrix has a very important fact, i.e., if matrix A is invertible, we are also able to write it as a multiplication of elementary matrices. Properties of Elementary Matrices All the elementary matrices are non-singular. The inverse of all non-singular elementary matrices will also be the elementary matrix. There are various properties of an elementary matrix, which are shown as follows: 1. If there is a matrix, which interchanges two rows, then the inverse of this matrix will be itself. For example: Suppose there is a matrix, which is described as follows:  The inverse of this matrix is described as follows:  The computation of the matrix is described as follows:  2. If there is an elementary matrix that is used to simulate (mRi) ? (Ri), then the inverse of this type of matrix will also be the elementary matrix that simulates (1/m Ri) ? (Ri). For example: Suppose there is a matrix, which is described as follows:  The inverse of this matrix is described as follows:  The computation of the matrix is described as follows:  3. If there is an elementary matrix that is used to simulate (Rj + mRi) ? (Rj), then the inverse of this type of matrix will also be the elementary matrix that simulates (Rj - mRi) ? (Rj). For example: Suppose there is a matrix, which is described as follows:  The inverse of this matrix is described as follows:  The computation of the matrix is described as follows:  Examples of Elementary Matrix Example 1: In this example, we have to determine that whether the given matrix A is elementary or not.  Solution: As we know, the elementary matrix is always the square matrix, and the above matrix is not a square matrix. That's why we can say that matrix A is not an elementary matrix. Example 2: In this example, we have to determine that whether the given matrix A is an elementary matrix or not.  Solution: The 2*2 size of identity matrix (I2) is described as follows:  If the second row of an identity matrix (I2) is multiplied by -3, we are able to get the above matrix A as a result. So we can say that matrix A is an elementary matrix. Example 3: In this example, we have to determine that whether the given matrix A is an elementary matrix or not.  Solution: The 3*3 size of identity matrix (I3) is described as follows:  If we multiply the first row of I3 by 7, we are able to get the following matrix:  As we can see that this matrix is not equal to the given matrix A because the third row of matrix A and generated matrix are not the same. We are also not able to perform a single row or column operation so that we can get given matrix A from identity matrix I3. That's why we can say that the elementary matrix is not described by the given matrix A. 
            
            
            Next Topic
            Hypergeometric Distribution in Discrete Mathematics 
             
            
            ? prev 
            next ? 
             
          
        
        
       
       
      
        
        For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel:  Join Now 
       
       
      Feedback 
       
       Send your Feedback to [email protected] 
       
       
      Help Others, Please Share 
       
       
       
      
       
       
       
       
       
       Learn Latest Tutorials 
        
         
         
           
          Splunk 
           
         
         
           
          SPSS 
           
         
         
           
          Swagger 
           
         
         
           
          Transact-SQL 
           
         
         
           
          Tumblr 
           
         
         
           
          ReactJS 
           
         
         
           
          Regex 
           
         
         
           
          Reinforcement Learning 
           
         
         
           
          R Programming 
           
         
         
           
          RxJS 
           
         
         
           
          React Native 
           
         
         
           
          Python Design Patterns 
           
         
         
           
          Python Pillow 
           
         
         
           
          Python Turtle 
           
         
         
           
          Keras 
           
        
       
       
       
       Preparation 
        
         
         
           
          Aptitude 
           
         
         
           
          Reasoning 
           
         
         
           
          Verbal Ability 
           
         
         
           
          Interview Questions 
           
         
         
           
          Company Questions 
           
        
       
       
       
       Trending Technologies 
        
         
         
           
          Artificial Intelligence 
           
         
         
           
          AWS 
           
         
         
           
          Selenium 
           
         
         
           
          Cloud Computing 
           
         
         
           
          Hadoop 
           
         
         
           
          ReactJS 
           
         
         
           
          Data Science 
           
         
         
           
          Angular 7 
           
         
         
           
          Blockchain 
           
         
         
           
          Git 
           
         
         
           
          Machine Learning 
           
         
         
           
          DevOps 
           
        
       
       
       
       B.Tech / MCA 
        
         
         
           
          DBMS 
           
         
         
           
          Data Structures 
           
         
         
           
          DAA 
           
         
         
           
          Operating System 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Network 
           
         
         
           
          Compiler Design 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Organization 
           
         
         
           
          Discrete Mathematics 
           
         
         
           
          Ethical Hacking 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Graphics 
           
         
         
           
          Software Engineering 
           
         
         
           
          Web Technology 
           
         
         
           
          Cyber Security 
           
         
         
           
          Automata 
           
         
         
           
          C Programming 
           
         
         
           
          C++ 
           
         
         
           
          Java 
           
         
         
           
          .Net 
           
         
         
           
          Python 
           
         
         
           
          Programs 
           
         
         
           
          Control System 
           
         
         
           
          Data Mining 
           
         
         
           
          Data Warehouse 
           
        
       
      
     
     
      
      
       
     
     
     
      
       
      
     
      
     
     
     
      
     
      
     
      
     
     
     
      
      Javatpoint Services 
      JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on [email protected], to get more information about given services. 
       
       Website Designing
       Website Development
       Java Development
       PHP Development
       WordPress
       Graphic Designing
       Logo
       Digital Marketing
       On Page and Off Page SEO
       PPC
       Content Development
       Corporate Training
       Classroom and Online Training
       Data Entry
       
      
     
      
      Training For College Campus 
      JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at [email protected] Duration: 1 week to 2 week
     
     
     
      
      Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter  
       
       
       
       
       
       
     
     
      
       Learn Tutorials
       Learn Java
       Learn Data Structures
       Learn C Programming
       Learn C++ Tutorial
       Learn C# Tutorial
       Learn PHP Tutorial
       Learn HTML Tutorial
       Learn JavaScript Tutorial
       Learn jQuery Tutorial
       Learn Spring Tutorial
      
      
       Our Websites
       Javatpoint.com
       Hindi100.com
       Lyricsia.com
       Quoteperson.com
       Jobandplacement.com
      
      
       Our Services
       Website Development
       Android Development
       Website Designing
       Digital Marketing
       Summer Training
       Industrial Training
       College Campus Training
      
      
       Contact
       Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3
       Noida, UP, 201301, India
       Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935
       Contact Us 
       Subscribe Us 
       Privacy Policy
       Sitemap
       
       About Me
      
     
     
      © Copyright 2011-2021 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
      
      
      
     
   
   
  
   
     
 

