

 
  
  Excel TRIM Function - javatpoint
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
   
   
   
  
  
  ? SCROLL TO TOP 
  
    
    
      
      
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           
           
       
      
      
     
     
      
       
       
      
      
       
       
      
     
     
      
       
       Home 
       Excel 
       MS Word 
       PowerPoint 
       C 
       C# 
       Java 
       PHP 
       HTML 
       SQL 
       PL/SQL 
       Python 
       Web Services 
       Quiz 
       Projects 
       Interview Q 
       Comment 
       Forum 
       Training 
       
       
     
     
     
     
      
     
     
      
      MS Excel Tutorial 
      
      
      Excel Tutorial 
      Workbook Window 
      Create & Open Workbooks 
      MS Excel Online 
      Excel vs Google Sheets 
      Office Button 
      Ribbon and Tabs 
      Features of Tabs 
      Quick Access Toolbar 
      Mini Toolbar 
      Title, Help, Zoom, View 
      
      
      Excel Worksheet 
      
      
      Worksheet, Row, Column 
      Moving on Worksheet 
      Enter Data 
      Select Data 
      Delete Data 
      Move Data 
      Copy Paste Data 
      Spell Check 
      Insert Symbols 
      
      
      Excel Calculation 
      
      
      Addition 
      Sigma Addition 
      Subtraction 
      Calculate Average 
      Sigma Average 
      
      
      Excel Fill Handle 
      
      
      Fill Handle 
      Fill Handle with Text 
      Text with Numbers 
      Fill Handle with Dates 
      
      
      Excel Formula 
      
      
      Create Formula 
      Fill Handle in Formula 
      Relative Referencing 
      Absolute Referencing 
      Instruction for Typing 
      Quick Excel Functions 
      
      
      Excel IF 
      
      
      If Function 
      If with Calculations 
      Excel COUNTIF 
      Advanced If 
      
      
      Excel Advanced 
      
      
      Excel Macros 
      Excel sumif 
      Excel vlookup 
      What is Pivot Table 
      Excel ISNA 
      Find & Remove Duplicates 
      Create drop-down List 
      Merge cells in Excel 
      
      
      Misc 
      
      
      How to enable macros in excel 
      How to calculate age in Excel 
      How to create a Pivot Table in excel 
      How to enable the Developer Tab in Excel 
      How to Calculate Standard Deviation in Excel 
      How to Calculate Time Difference in Excel 
      How to Freeze Cells in Excel 
      What-if Analysis in Excel 
      How To Insert Checkbox in MS Excel 
      How To Insert PDF in MS Excel 
      How to change the Date Format in Excel 
      How to compare two Excel sheet 
      How To Apply Filter In Excel 
      How To Move Columns In Excel 
      How to add or remove Hyperlink in Excel 
      How to calculate Mean in Excel 
      How to Separate text in Excel 
      How to recover a macro in Excel 
      How to recover a Corrupted Excel file 
      How to recover an Excel file 
      How to remove comma in Excel 
      How to sum a column in Excel 
      How to remove the filter in Excel 
      How to remove gridlines in Excel 
      How To Convert Excel To CSV 
      How To Create Table in Excel 
      How to Calculate IRR in Excel 
      How to Count Characters in Excel 
      How to Make an Excel Sheet 
      How to Replace Words in Excel 
      How to Sort by Date in Excel 
      How to hide formulas in Excel 
      How to subtract in excel 
      How to use the IF function in Excel 
      How To Create A Graph In Excel 
      How to use concatenate in Excel 
      How to spell check in Excel 
      How to Change Lowercase to Uppercase in Excel 
      How to Create a Dashboard in Excel 
      How to Delete Duplicate Rows in Excel 
      How to use sumifs formula in Excel 
      How to add page break in Excel 
      How to remove the page break in Excel 
      How to Convert Columns to Rows in Excel 
      How to Convert Number to Words in Excel 
      How to Make a Table in Excel 
      How to Put Tick Mark in Excel 
      How to Remove Passwords from Excel File 
      How to Wrap Text in Excel 
      How to insert comments in Excel 
      How to add/remove Password from Excel 
      How to use MS Excel 
      How to sort in Excel 
      How to record a macro in Excel 
      How Many Rows and Columns in Excel 2007 
      How to Search in Excel 
      How to add a text box in Excel 
      How to save Excel document 
      How to set background image in Excel 
      How to use COUNTIF function in Excel 
      How to import the data from CSV file in Excel 
      How to unlock scroll lock in Excel 
      What is a cell in Excel 
      Uses of MS Excel 
      How to Reduce Excel File Size 
      How to Save Excel File as PDF 
      ODS to Excel 
      How to lock cells in Excel 
      How to unlock cells in Excel 
      Hyperlink in Excel 
      How to compare two columns in Excel 
      Conditional formatting in Excel 
      How to define custom rules for conditional formatting in Excel 
      Data validation in Excel 
      Apply data validation in Excel 
      Remove spaces in Excel 
      How to Save Excel File 
      Watermark in Excel 
      How to unhide columns in Excel 
      How to delete blank rows in Excel 
      Excel round off formula 
      How to Add Watermark in Excel 
      How to Remove Watermark in Excel 
      Excel Save As Shortcut 
      Excel Shortcut Keys 
      Excel match function 
      HLOOKUP formula in Excel 
      What is the file extension for Excel 
      Offset function in Excel 
      Compound interest formula in Excel 
      Excel password remover 
      FV() function in Excel 
      MS Excel Definition 
      What is Excel 
      Excelity login 
      Income tax calculating formula in Excel 
      Google Excel Spreadsheet 
      Online Excel Viewer 
      Online Excel Editor 
      How to make pie charts in excel 
      How to calculate number of days between two dates in Excel 
      Excel Download 
      Download MS Office 2019 using command prompt 
      Download Windows and MS office activator 
      Excel Header and Footer 
      Excel to JPG 
      JPG to Excel 
      Salary slip format in Excel 
      How to count colored cells in Excel 
      Excel Substring formula 
      CSV to Excel 
      Word to Excel 
      Regression analysis in Excel 
      How to calculate CAGR in Excel 
      Excel to Word 
      Percentage formula in Excel 
      Mail merge in Excel 
      How to unhide rows in Excel 
      How to Split Cells in Excel 
      Current Date in Excel 
      Index function in Excel 
      How to remove formula in Excel 
      Excel Features 
      Flash Fill in Excel 
      How to convert Excel to JSON 
      Convert Excel to JSON using VBA code 
      Round formula in Excel 
      Excel formula 
      Ratio in Excel 
      Excel Delete Row Shortcut 
      Insert Column Excel Shortcut 
      Excel not equal to operator 
      Logical operators in Excel 
      Delete Data in Excel 
      Excel Slicer 
      Excel Difference Between Two Dates 
      Excel Filter Shortcut 
      Excel Charts 
      Excel text function 
      Excel LOOKUP() function 
      MS Excel Grade Formula 
      10 Disadvantages of Microsoft Excel 
      Shortcut Keys in Excel 2010 
      Advanced Formulas in Excel 
      Excel Merge Cells Shortcut 
      Excel Paste Special Shortcut 
      INDIRECT() function in Excel 
      What is Relative Reference in Excel 
      Excel Sum Shortcut 
      Redo Shortcut in Excel 
      Arrow key is not working in Excel 
      Type of charts in Excel 
      Nested If Function in Excel 
      Lower() in excel 
      Proper() in excel 
      Types of References in Excel 
      AND Function in Excel 
      How to do subtraction in Excel 
      Excel MAX() Function 
      How to delete a Sheet in Excel 
      How to Insert Chart in Excel 
      Excel ISERROR() function 
      Excel add-ins 
      IF() in excel 
      REPT() in excel 
      What is Formatting in Excel 
      OR Function in Excel 
      Solver in Excel 
      Excel AVERAGE() Function 
      Excel MIN() Function 
      Format Painter in Excel 
      COUNTA function in excel 
      Excel mid function 
      Excel right function 
      Excel Choose Function 
      How to Use RIGHT Function in Excel 
      NOT Function in Excel 
      Excel COUNT() Function 
      Line Chart Excel 
      Excel RAND() function 
      Excel find() function 
      Excel tricks 
      Dollar function in excel 
      Left formula in excel 
      Randbetween function in excel 
      ROUNDDOWN Function in Excel 
      Tenure Formula in Excel 
      Excel TODAY and NOW 
      How to unhide worksheet in Excel 
      Freeze panes in Excel 
      Excel PMT Function 
      NETWORKDAYS Formula in Excel 
      Pivot Chart in Excel 
      Excel Hide Shortcut 
      Unhide Shortcut in Excel 
      Range in Excel 
      Strikethrough in Excel 
      How to password protect an Excel sheet 
      Page Orientation in Excel 
      Area Chart in Excel 
      Bubble Chart Excel 
      Autofill in Excel 
      Convert rows to columns 
      Analysis ToolPak 
      Zoom In/Out in Excel 
      Excel Format Painter Shortcut 
      Excel Wrap Text Shortcut 
      Uppercase Shortcut in Excel 
      How to make a bar chart in Excel 
      JSON to Excel 
      Sparkline chart 
      Why MS Excel is Important 
      Waterfall Chart Excel 
      Excel IRR formula 
      Excel Pareto chart 
      Column Chart 
      Formatting Charts 
      Pie Chart 
      Doughnut Chart Excel 
      Scatter Plot Excel 
      Text to column in Excel 
      Excel IFERROR() function 
      Excel Median() function 
      Gantt Chart Excel 
      Consolidate data in Excel 
      Excel Strikethrough Shortcut 
      Flow Chart Excel 
      Organization Chart Excel 
      Excel box plot 
      Excel Transpose Function 
      Circular reference in Excel 
      Excel Filter Function 
      Excel VAR.S() Function 
      Email Workbook 
      Share Workbook 
      Correlation in Excel 
      How many sheets are there in excel workbook by default 
      What is Mod Function in Excel 
      Compatibility mode in Excel 
      How to unprotect Excel sheet without password 
      Adding Graphics 
      Translate Worksheet 
      Excel Large Function 
      Excel Rank Function 
      Cross Referencing in Excel 
      Using Themes in Excel 
      Excel IFNA Function 
      Excel TRIM Function 
      Excel DATEVALUE Function 
      Excel SUBSTITUTE Function 
      Special Symbols in Excel 
      
      
      Shortcut Keys 
      
      
      Excel Shortcut Keys 
      
      
      Interview Questions 
      
      
      Excel Interview 
      HR Interview 
      SQL Interview 
      PL/SQL Interview 
      
      
      
      
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       
        
       
      
      
       
        
        
         
           
            
            next ? 
            ? prev 
            Excel TRIM Function The Excel data is usually imported from different databases or other data applications. The data fetched from these sources are usually not in proper order. They contain leading, trailing, or irregular spaces, and these spaces affect the output of your formulas. For example, you compare the data of two different columns for duplicate values that you know are present there, but the Excel function cannot locate the duplicate data. Or, when you add up numbers from two columns but end up getting zero as your output. These are only some examples of problems generated by leading, trailing, or in-between spaces in the cells containing numeric or text values. Though there are many methods to remove extra spaces and clean up your data in Microsoft Excel, but the easiest and fastest solution to delete the extra spaces is Excel's inbuilt TRIM function. What is TRIM function? 
           
            The Excel TRIM function removes before and following spaces from the words, i.e., leading and trailing spaces. It also eliminates extra spaces in-between the texts but does not remove the single space separating two different texts. In other words, we can say that the TRIM function is used to clean the unwanted space characters from your data.
            This function strips extra spaces from your numeric or text values, leaving only a single space between words and excluding any leading, trailing, or extra in-between space. Microsoft Excel designed the TRIM function to eliminate only the space character, which has value 32 in the 7-bit ASCII code system. Apart from extra spaces, sometimes our data contains line breaks and non-printing characters. In such cases, the TRIM function will only remove the extra spaces. If you intend to clean your data and remove the line breaks and various non-printing characters (7-bit ASCII code values 0 through 31) use the TRIM function in combination with the Excel CLEAN function. Syntax 
           
            
=TRIM (Text)

            Parameter Text (Required): This parameter represents the text from which you want to remove the extra space. Points to Remember about the TRIM Function: 
            
            The TRIM() function strips the extra spaces from the given text. Therefore, leaving only a single space between words and removing all the space characters at the start or end of the text and the extra spaces in between text. 
            This function is useful to clean the unnecessary mess that you receive by importing your data from other applications or environments. 
            Technically, TRIM only removes the character has value 32 in the 7-bit ASCII code system. 
            Sometimes TRIM does not work and it may be because your text contains Unicode character also known as non-breaking space character (160) that is commonly used in web pages as the html character  . TRIM function cannot remove these nonbreaking spaces. 
            If you want to remove unwanted elements you can use the Excel CLEAN function. It strips the first 32 non-printing characters (7-bit ASCII code values 0 through 31) from the given data. 
            Example 1: In the below table, Use TRIM to remove the extra spaces. 
            
            
              
              String1 
              
              
              S001 A 
              
              
              S001 A 
              
              
              S002 
              
              
              S003 
              
            
            The TRIM function removes all leading, trailing and in-between spaces leaving a single space character in between the text. To trim you data follow the below given steps: STEP 1: Add a helper column named Trimmed Output Place your mouse cursor to the cell next to "string1" and name the new column as "Trimmed Output". It will look similar to the below image:  In this column we will type our TRIM formula and place the trimmed data for different text values. NOTE: Format the helper column and match it with the first column to make your Excel sheet more attractive. STEP 2: Type the TRIM formula Put your cursor to the second row and start typing the function = TRIM( It will look similar to the below image:  STEP 3: Insert the text parameter The text parameter represents the input value from which you want to remove the extra spaces. Here, B4 represents the text cell. It will look similar to the below image:  STEP 4: TRIM will return the result The TRIM will return the data after removing the extra leading, trailing or in-between spaces leaving only a single space between words. It will look similar to the below image:  STEP 5: Drag the formula to other rows to repeat Place your mouse cursor on the formula cell and point the cursor to the right corner of the cell. To your surprise, the mouse pointer will turn into a '+' icon. Refer to the below image:  Drag the '+' icon down the cells. It will copy the TRIM function to all your cells changing the cell reference as respective to the cell. As you can see below, the extra spaces from your data has been removed. It will look similar to the below image:  That's it; following the above few steps, you can easily remove the extra spaces from your text. Example 2: Remove the extra spaces in the strings and then join the 3 strings together using CONCATENATE and & (ampersand) operator to get the results as mentioned in the result column. Do so in one formula itself 
            
            
              
              String1 
              String2 
              String3 
              USE 
              
              
              E001 
              AVP 
              800 
              CONCATENATE 
              
              
              E002 
              Analyst 
              500 
              CONCATENATE 
              
              
              E003 
              Ana lyst 
              100 
              & 
              
              
              E004 
              Analyst 
              400 
              & 
              
            
            STEP 1: Add a helper column named Output Place your mouse cursor to the cell next to "string1" and name the new column as "Output". It will look similar to the below image:  In this column we will type our TRIM formula and place the trimmed data for different text values. NOTE: Format the helper column and match it with the match column to make your Excel sheet more attractive. STEP 2: Type the TRIM formula Put your cursor to the second row and start typing the function = TRIM( It will look similar to the below image:  Next, we are supposed to concatenate the three strings, inserting the Excel CONCATENATE function inside the TRIM function. Refer to the below image:  STEP 3: Add the parameter Next, we will pass the strings. Firstly we will pass string1, and therefore here we have referred to cell B4. Separated by comma, we will pass the reference of the second cell, i.e., C4. Again we will separate it by comma and pass the reference of the third cell, i.e., D4. The formula will become: =TRIM(CONCATENATE(B4,C4,D4)) It will look similar to the below image:  STEP 4: TRIM will return the result The concatenate will add three of the strings, and afterward, the TRIM function will remove all the extra spaces from the text leaving only a single space between words. It will look similar to the below image:  STEP 5: Drag the formula to next rows to repeat Place your mouse cursor on the formula cell and point the cursor to the right corner of the cell. To your surprise, the mouse pointer will turn into a '+' icon. Drag the icon to repeat the formula for the next row. Refer to the below image:  STEP 6: Insert the TRIM formula and use & to combine the strings 
            
            Point your cursor to the next row and enter the formula = TRIM( 
            Enter the parameter by referring to the first string followed by '&'. Next, refer to the second string followed by the '&' and again refer to the third-string cell. 
            The formula will become: =TRIM(B6&C6&D6) 
            Refer to the below image:  STEP 7: Drag the formula to F7 cell Drag the '+' icon down the cells. It will copy the TRIM function to all your cells, changing the cell reference as respective to the cell. As you can see below, the extra spaces from your text (including the leading, trailing, and extra in-between spaces) have been removed.  Example 3: Remove only leading spaces from Excel data (Left Trim) 
            
            
              
              String1 
              
              
              2001 S001A 
              
              
              5001 S002A 
              
              
              3001 S002B 
              
              
              6001 S003A 
              
            
            In some cases, you may intentionally insert double or triple space characters in between your data values to make your text visually attractive and more readable. However, you do want to remove the unwanted leading spaces. To do so, follow the below-given steps: STEP 1: Add a helper column named Output Place your mouse cursor to the cell next to "string1" and name the new column as "Output". It will look similar to the below image:  In this column we will type our formula and place the trimmed data for different text values. STEP 2: Insert the formula As you already know, the TRIM function also removes the unwanted spaces that are present in between the data values. But if you want to keep all the in-between white spaces intact, the TRIM function alone won't work; you have to construct a bit more complex formula: 
           
             =MID(B3,FIND(MID(TRIM(B3),1,1),B3),LEN(B3)) 
             In the above formula, the grouping of FIND, MID, and TRIM locates the position of the first value of your string. And then, we have provided the fetched number to another MID function to return the entire text string (where the LEN function computes the string length) starting at the position of the first text character. STEP 3: TRIM will return the result The TRIM function will return the result after removing only the leading spaces from your text value.  NOTE: Unlike here we have removed the leading spaces. Similarly, you can remove spaces from the end of cells, by modifying the formula a bit. STEP 5: Drag the formula to other rows to repeat 
            
            Place your mouse cursor on the formula cell and point the cursor to the right corner of the cell. 
            To your surprise, the mouse pointer will turn into a '+' icon. Drag the '+' icon down the cells. 
            It will copy the TRIM function to all your cells, changing the cell reference as respective to the cell. 
            As you can see below, all the leading spaces from the data have been removed. 
            Refer to the below image:  Excel TRIM not working The TRIM function is designed only to remove the space character represented by code value 32 in the 7-bit ASCII character set. Sometimes you copy the Excel data from different websites and while pasting the data you paste some Unicode characters as well. In the Unicode character set, there is one more space character known as the non-breaking space (having a decimal value of 160), commonly used in web pages as the html character  . TRIM function cannot remove this Unicode space character. So, if your Excel worksheet contains unwanted space character that the TRIM function cannot eliminate, don't get panic and use the Excel SUBSTITUTE function to convert the Unicode space character into regular Excel white spaces and then apply the TRIM function. Let's suppose the text is present in B1, the formula will be as follows: 
           
             =TRIM(SUBSTITUTE(B1, CHAR(160), " ")) 
            
            
            
            Next Topic
            Excel DATEVALUE Function 
             
            
            ? prev 
            next ? 
             
          
        
        
       
       
      
        
        For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel:  Join Now 
       
       
      Feedback 
       
       Send your Feedback to [email protected] 
       
       
      Help Others, Please Share 
       
       
       
      
       
       
       
       
       
       Learn Latest Tutorials 
        
         
         
           
          Splunk 
           
         
         
           
          SPSS 
           
         
         
           
          Swagger 
           
         
         
           
          Transact-SQL 
           
         
         
           
          Tumblr 
           
         
         
           
          ReactJS 
           
         
         
           
          Regex 
           
         
         
           
          Reinforcement Learning 
           
         
         
           
          R Programming 
           
         
         
           
          RxJS 
           
         
         
           
          React Native 
           
         
         
           
          Python Design Patterns 
           
         
         
           
          Python Pillow 
           
         
         
           
          Python Turtle 
           
         
         
           
          Keras 
           
        
       
       
       
       Preparation 
        
         
         
           
          Aptitude 
           
         
         
           
          Reasoning 
           
         
         
           
          Verbal Ability 
           
         
         
           
          Interview Questions 
           
         
         
           
          Company Questions 
           
        
       
       
       
       Trending Technologies 
        
         
         
           
          Artificial Intelligence 
           
         
         
           
          AWS 
           
         
         
           
          Selenium 
           
         
         
           
          Cloud Computing 
           
         
         
           
          Hadoop 
           
         
         
           
          ReactJS 
           
         
         
           
          Data Science 
           
         
         
           
          Angular 7 
           
         
         
           
          Blockchain 
           
         
         
           
          Git 
           
         
         
           
          Machine Learning 
           
         
         
           
          DevOps 
           
        
       
       
       
       B.Tech / MCA 
        
         
         
           
          DBMS 
           
         
         
           
          Data Structures 
           
         
         
           
          DAA 
           
         
         
           
          Operating System 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Network 
           
         
         
           
          Compiler Design 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Organization 
           
         
         
           
          Discrete Mathematics 
           
         
         
           
          Ethical Hacking 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Graphics 
           
         
         
           
          Software Engineering 
           
         
         
           
          Web Technology 
           
         
         
           
          Cyber Security 
           
         
         
           
          Automata 
           
         
         
           
          C Programming 
           
         
         
           
          C++ 
           
         
         
           
          Java 
           
         
         
           
          .Net 
           
         
         
           
          Python 
           
         
         
           
          Programs 
           
         
         
           
          Control System 
           
         
         
           
          Data Mining 
           
         
         
           
          Data Warehouse 
           
        
       
      
     
     
      
      
       
     
     
     
      
       
      
     
      
     
     
     
      
     
      
     
      
     
     
     
      
      Javatpoint Services 
      JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on [email protected], to get more information about given services. 
       
       Website Designing
       Website Development
       Java Development
       PHP Development
       WordPress
       Graphic Designing
       Logo
       Digital Marketing
       On Page and Off Page SEO
       PPC
       Content Development
       Corporate Training
       Classroom and Online Training
       Data Entry
       
      
     
      
      Training For College Campus 
      JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at [email protected] Duration: 1 week to 2 week
     
     
     
      
      Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter  
       
       
       
       
       
       
     
     
      
       Learn Tutorials
       Learn Java
       Learn Data Structures
       Learn C Programming
       Learn C++ Tutorial
       Learn C# Tutorial
       Learn PHP Tutorial
       Learn HTML Tutorial
       Learn JavaScript Tutorial
       Learn jQuery Tutorial
       Learn Spring Tutorial
      
      
       Our Websites
       Javatpoint.com
       Hindi100.com
       Lyricsia.com
       Quoteperson.com
       Jobandplacement.com
      
      
       Our Services
       Website Development
       Android Development
       Website Designing
       Digital Marketing
       Summer Training
       Industrial Training
       College Campus Training
      
      
       Contact
       Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3
       Noida, UP, 201301, India
       Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935
       Contact Us 
       Subscribe Us 
       Privacy Policy
       Sitemap
       
       About Me
      
     
     
      © Copyright 2011-2021 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
      
      
      
     
   
   
  
   
     
 

