

 
  
  Heat Engine - Javatpoint
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
   
   
   
  
  
  ? SCROLL TO TOP 
  
    
    
      
      
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           
           
       
      
      
     
     
      
       
       
      
      
       
       
      
     
     
      
       
       Home 
       Physics 
       Chemistry 
       Biology 
       GK 
       Maths 
       Reasoning 
       Aptitude 
       Verbal Ability 
       Java 
       JSP 
       Android 
       C# 
       HTML 
       CSS 
       jQuery 
       Programs 
       Projects 
       Interview Q 
       
       
     
     
     
     
      
     
     
      
      Physics 
      
      
      Vapor 
      Kirchhoff's law 
      Quantum Physics 
      Boiling 
      Carnot Engine 
      Unit of Heat 
      Heat Engine 
      Blackbody radiation 
      Dew point 
      
      
      
      
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       
        
       
      
      
       
        
        
         
           
            
            next ? 
            ? prev 
            Heat engine We know that heat is a form of energy, and a system can be given energy either by providing heat or some mechanical work. An engine is a machine designed to convert one form of energy into another. Thus, a heat engine is an engine that takes some heat energy from the body at a higher temperature, converts a part of its energy into mechanical work, and delivers it to the body at a lower temperature. The diagram representing the basic activity of the heat engine is shown below:  We can also say that the concept of the heat engine is based on the first law of thermodynamics. According to the law, a system can be given an amount of energy either through heat or some mechanical work. The main advantage of heat engines is that it can use various processes, such as consumption and friction to convert different forms of energy into heat energy. Here, we will discuss the efficiency of the heat engine, types of heat engines, and examples of heat engines. Efficiency of heat engine Let us suppose that the amount of heat from the high-temperature body be Q1, the work done by W, and the heat rejected by the system to the low-temperature body be Q2. The system observes no change if the system's final state is the same as its initial state. According to the first law of thermodynamics, we can write the equation as: W = Q1 - Q2 Efficiency = work done by the engine/heat supplied to it = W/Q1 = Q1 - Q2/Q1 = 1 - Q2/Q1 Let's now discuss the types and examples of heat engines. Types of Heat engine  The types of heat engine are classified as: 
            
            Internal Combustion engine 
            External Combustion engine 
            Let's discuss this in detail. Internal Combustion Engine Combustion refers to the burning of fuel. When the fuel burns inside a system, it is known as internal combustion engine. It commonly uses petrol or diesel as the heat energy source. The internal combustion engine produces the work by burning the fuel creating a high pressure environment. The produced work is further used to run a turbine/piston, which converts the heat energy from the fuel to the mechanical energy. The piston in the heat engines moves upward and downward, and a single movement of the piston in either direction is known as stroke. Most of the vehicles come in two stokes or 4 strokes, and the four strokes of two-wheelers or four-wheelers are named intake, compression, combustion, and exhaust stroke. The two common types of internal combustion engines are petrol engines and diesel engines. Advantages The advantages of an internal combustion engine are as follows: 
            
            Low initial cost 
            Compact size 
            Improved efficiency 
            High power to weight ratio 
            Less starting time 
            Safe operation 
            Disadvantages The disadvantages of an internal combustion engine are as follows: 
            
            Costly fuel (petrol, diesel, or any other fossil fuels) 
            It is not suitable for large-scale power generation. 
            High engine emissions 
            It requires a lot of maintenance. 
            External Combustion Engine Combustion refers to the burning of the fuel. When the fuel burns outside a system, it is known as external combustion engine. The external combustion engine produces the work by burning the fuel, which is further transferred to the secondary liquid. Such working fluid is placed inside the system. Such fluid acts on the mechanism of the combustion engine and produces work. The fluid is not wasted after the use, but is recycled and reused. The heat source for both the external combustion engine and the internal combustion engine is combustion. A common example of the external combustion engine is the steam engine.  Advantages The advantages of an external combustion engine are as follows: 
            
            Any type of fuel can be used 
            It is suitable to operate in high altitude areas. 
            Low engine emissions, more controllable, and efficient as compared to the internal combustion engine. 
            Disadvantages The disadvantages of an external combustion engine are as follows: 
            
            The size of the engine is comparatively big. 
            It is not preferred for low load requirements. 
            It requires more components, such as a boiler, to transfer the energy. Thus, it becomes heavy. 
            Examples of Heat Engine 
            
            Carnot Engine 
            Steam Engine 
            Evaporative heat engines 
            Petrol engine 
            Diesel engine 
            Let' discuss a small description about the above listed examples of the heat engine. Carnot Engine Carnot engine is a theoretical engine. The working of Carnot engine is based on the Carnot cycle, which comprises of four states. The states are named as Reversible isothermal expansion, Reversible adiabatic expansion, Reversible isothermal compression, and isentropic compression. These stages describe the processes of conversion of heat into work. Carnot also states that the engine requires a hot body, which acts as an energy source for the engine, and it transfers that energy to the cold body to do some mechanical work. The concept of heat transfer is based on the second law of thermodynamics. Steam Engine As the name implies, the steam engine takes energy from the steam. Thus, the steam engine is a heat engine that takes heat from the steam (vapor form of a liquid) and converts a part of it into mechanical energy. The energy produced is used to move the piston, which is further used to run various objects, such as a train. The efficiency of steam engines ranges from about 3 % to 10 %, and it is less than other engines. But, steam turbines are widely used today to produce energy due to their high efficiency. Hence, the steam expansion in such turbines is continuous. Today, steam engines come in various types of designs, but the concept of producing energy remains the same. Evaporative heat engines The evaporative heat engine works at reduced pressure by evaporative cooling of dry air. Apart from producing power in hot arid climates, the evaporative heat engine can also be used as an evaporative cooler. It can also function well on industrial waste heat. The advantage of an evaporative heat engine is that it works best in hot, dry climates. Petrol engine Petrol engine is also known as the Otto engine because it was developed by Nicolaus August Otto, a German engineer. The mixture of petrol and air is inserted in the main cylinder, which is made of steel. In such engines, a spark plug is placed in the main cylinder and produces electric sparks, and these sparks burn the petrol-air mixture. Diesel engine The diesel engine uses diesel as the fuel, and its construction and working are similar to that of a petrol engine. The fuel ignites easily due to high temperatures, and it results in the piston movement with a greater force. Thus, a large amount of mechanical energy is obtained. FAQs Let's discuss some frequently asked questions. Question 1: What is the recently environment friendly alternative initiated for the oils used in the heat engine? Solution: Batteries To save the usage of oil in various engines, batteries are recommended as an eco-friendly alternative. It also stores energy and act as a backup when there is no electricity. Question 2: Are heat engines 100 % efficient? Solution: No system is 100 % efficient. Due to some practical limitation, the efficiency of heat engines ranges between 30 and 50 %. Question 3: What is the main difference between heat and temperature? Solution: Temperature defines the average kinetic energy and is measured in Kelvin, Celsius, and Fahrenheit. Heat describes the transfer of thermal energy between molecules in a system, and heat also measures energy flow.  Question 4: When does heat flows fastest? Solution: Heat flows fastest from the hotter substance to the cooler substance, and it means that the heat flows from a body at a higher temperature to the body at a lower temperature. 
            
            
            Next Topic
            Blackbody radiation 
             
            
            ? prev 
            next ? 
             
          
        
        
       
       
      
        
        For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel:  Join Now 
       
       
      Feedback 
       
       Send your Feedback to [email protected] 
       
       
      Help Others, Please Share 
       
       
       
      
       
       
       
       
       
       Learn Latest Tutorials 
        
         
         
           
          Splunk 
           
         
         
           
          SPSS 
           
         
         
           
          Swagger 
           
         
         
           
          Transact-SQL 
           
         
         
           
          Tumblr 
           
         
         
           
          ReactJS 
           
         
         
           
          Regex 
           
         
         
           
          Reinforcement Learning 
           
         
         
           
          R Programming 
           
         
         
           
          RxJS 
           
         
         
           
          React Native 
           
         
         
           
          Python Design Patterns 
           
         
         
           
          Python Pillow 
           
         
         
           
          Python Turtle 
           
         
         
           
          Keras 
           
        
       
       
       
       Preparation 
        
         
         
           
          Aptitude 
           
         
         
           
          Reasoning 
           
         
         
           
          Verbal Ability 
           
         
         
           
          Interview Questions 
           
         
         
           
          Company Questions 
           
        
       
       
       
       Trending Technologies 
        
         
         
           
          Artificial Intelligence 
           
         
         
           
          AWS 
           
         
         
           
          Selenium 
           
         
         
           
          Cloud Computing 
           
         
         
           
          Hadoop 
           
         
         
           
          ReactJS 
           
         
         
           
          Data Science 
           
         
         
           
          Angular 7 
           
         
         
           
          Blockchain 
           
         
         
           
          Git 
           
         
         
           
          Machine Learning 
           
         
         
           
          DevOps 
           
        
       
       
       
       B.Tech / MCA 
        
         
         
           
          DBMS 
           
         
         
           
          Data Structures 
           
         
         
           
          DAA 
           
         
         
           
          Operating System 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Network 
           
         
         
           
          Compiler Design 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Organization 
           
         
         
           
          Discrete Mathematics 
           
         
         
           
          Ethical Hacking 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Graphics 
           
         
         
           
          Software Engineering 
           
         
         
           
          Web Technology 
           
         
         
           
          Cyber Security 
           
         
         
           
          Automata 
           
         
         
           
          C Programming 
           
         
         
           
          C++ 
           
         
         
           
          Java 
           
         
         
           
          .Net 
           
         
         
           
          Python 
           
         
         
           
          Programs 
           
         
         
           
          Control System 
           
         
         
           
          Data Mining 
           
         
         
           
          Data Warehouse 
           
        
       
      
     
     
      
      
       
     
     
     
      
       
      
     
      
     
     
     
      
     
      
     
      
     
     
     
      
      Javatpoint Services 
      JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on [email protected], to get more information about given services. 
       
       Website Designing
       Website Development
       Java Development
       PHP Development
       WordPress
       Graphic Designing
       Logo
       Digital Marketing
       On Page and Off Page SEO
       PPC
       Content Development
       Corporate Training
       Classroom and Online Training
       Data Entry
       
      
     
      
      Training For College Campus 
      JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at [email protected] Duration: 1 week to 2 week
     
     
     
      
      Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter  
       
       
       
       
       
       
     
     
      
       Learn Tutorials
       Learn Java
       Learn Data Structures
       Learn C Programming
       Learn C++ Tutorial
       Learn C# Tutorial
       Learn PHP Tutorial
       Learn HTML Tutorial
       Learn JavaScript Tutorial
       Learn jQuery Tutorial
       Learn Spring Tutorial
      
      
       Our Websites
       Javatpoint.com
       Hindi100.com
       Lyricsia.com
       Quoteperson.com
       Jobandplacement.com
      
      
       Our Services
       Website Development
       Android Development
       Website Designing
       Digital Marketing
       Summer Training
       Industrial Training
       College Campus Training
      
      
       Contact
       Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3
       Noida, UP, 201301, India
       Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935
       Contact Us 
       Subscribe Us 
       Privacy Policy
       Sitemap
       
       About Me
      
     
     
      © Copyright 2011-2021 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
      
      
      
     
   
   
  
   
     
 

