

 
  
  How to Connect Xbox One Controller to Android - javatpoint
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
   
   
   
  
  
  ? SCROLL TO TOP 
  
    
    
      
      
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           
           
       
      
      
     
     
      
       
       
      
      
       
       
      
     
     
      
       
       Home 
       Android 
       Java 
       Servlet 
       JSP 
       Struts2 
       Mail API 
       Hibernate 
       Spring 
       Design Pattern 
       Quiz 
       Projects 
       Interview Q 
       Comment  
       
       
      
     
     
     
      
     
     
     Android Training 
      
      Android Tutorial 
      
      
      Android Introduction 
      What is Android 
      History and Version 
      Android Architecture 
      Core Building Blocks 
      Android Emulator 
      Install Android 
      Setup Eclipse 
      Hello Android example 
      Internal Details 
      Dalvik VM 
      AndroidManifest.xml 
      R.java 
      Hide Title Bar 
      Screen Orientation 
      
      
      Android Widgets 
      
      
      UI Widgets 
      Working with Button 
      Toast 
      Custom Toast 
      ToggleButton 
      CheckBox 
      Custom CheckBox 
      RadioButton 
      Dynamic RadioButton 
      Custom RadioButton 
      AlertDialog 
      Spinner 
      AutoCompleteTextView 
      ListView 
      Custom ListView 
      RatingBar 
      WebView 
      SeekBar 
      DatePicker 
      TimePicker 
      Analog and Digital 
      ProgressBar 
      Vertical ScrollView 
      Horizontal ScrollView 
      ImageSwitcher 
      ImageSlider 
      ViewStub 
      TabLayout 
      TabLayout with FrameLayout 
      SearchView 
      SearchView on Toolbar 
      EditText with TextWatcher 
      
      
      Activity and Intents 
      
      
      Activity LifeCycle 
      Implicit Intent 
      Explicit Intent 
      StartActivityForResult 
      Share App Data 
      
      
      Android Fragments 
      
      
      Android Fragments 
      
      
      Android Menu 
      
      
      Option Menu 
      Context Menu 
      Popup Menu 
      
      
      Android Service 
      
      
      Android Service 
      
      
      Android AlarmManager 
      
      
      Android AlarmManager 
      
      
      Android Storage 
      
      
      Android Preferences 
      Internal Storage 
      External Storage 
      
      
      Android SQLite 
      
      
      SQLite Tutorial 
      SQLite Spinner 
      
      
      XML and JSON 
      
      
      XML Parsing SAX 
      XML Parsing DOM 
      XMLPullParser 
      JSON Parsing 
      
      
      Android Multimedia 
      
      
      MediaPlayer: Audio 
      VideoView: Video 
      Recording Media 
      
      
      Android Speech 
      
      
      TextToSpeech1 
      TextToSpeech2 
      
      
      Android Telephony 
      
      
      TelephonyManager 
      Get Call State 
      Get Call State 2 
      Simple Caller Talker 
      Phone Call 
      Send SMS 
      Send Email 
      
      
      Android Device 
      
      
      Bluetooth Tutorial 
      List Paired Devices 
      WIFI 
      
      
      Camera Tutorial 
      
      
      Camera Tutorial 
      
      
      Sensor Tutorial 
      
      
      Sensor Tutorial 
      
      
      Android Graphics 
      
      
      Android Graphics 
      
      
      Android Animation 
      
      
      Android Animation 
      
      
      Android Web Service 
      
      
      Android Web Service 
      
      
      Google Map 
      
      
      Android Google Map 
      Current Location 
      Search Location 
      
      
      Adding Ads 
      
      
      Android Google Admob 
      1) Banner Ads 
      2) Interstitial Ads 
      
      
      Android Examples 
      
      
      QR/Bar Code Scanner 
      RSS Feed Reader 
      Volley Fetch JSON 
      Android Linkify 
      Intro Slider 
      RecyclerView List 
      Swipe Del RecyclerView 
      Swipe Refresh Activity 
      Volley Library Registration Log-in Log-out 
      Network Connectivity Services 
      Firebase Authentication - Google Login 
      Android Notification 
      Using Google reCAPTCHA 
      
      
      Android Social 
      
      
      Integrating Google Sign-In 
      Integrating LinkedIn 
      Integrating Twitter 
      
      
      Android Versions 
      
      
      Android Versions 
      Android KitKat 
      Android Lollipop 
      Android Marshmallow 
      Android Nougat 
      Android Oreo 
      Android Pie 
      Android 10 
      
      
      Android Misc 
      
      
      Android Device Manager 
      Android Studio 
      Android Auto 
      Android File Transfer 
      Android Messages 
      Android TV 
      Android Screenshot 
      Android Pay 
      Android Watch 
      Android Phones 
      Android Tablets 
      Android Find My Phone 
      Android One 
      Android Wear OS 
      Android Data Recovery 
      Android Antivirus 
      Android x86 
      Android vs iPhone 
      Emulator for PC 
      Android File Manager 
      Android ad blocker 
      Android Podcast App 
      Fortnite Epic Game 
      FaceTime for Android 
      ShowBox for Android 
      Android App Store 
      Virus Removal for Android 
      Clear cache Android 
      Root Android Device 
      Android Screen Recorder 
      Block Number on Android 
      Canon printer app for Android 
      Wireless HP printer app for Android 
      How to Update Android 
      iMessage for Android 
      iCloud for Android 
      Call Recorder for Android 
      Videoder Android Apk 
      YouTube Video Downloader for Android 
      Airdrop for Android 
      RoboKiller for Android 
      Clean my Android Phone 
      How to hide apps, files, and photos on Android 
      Best weather apps with widgets for Android 
      File Transfer for Mac 
      Mobdro for Android 
      Android Screen Mirroring 
      Stock market apps 
      turn On or Off safe mode 
      Best browsers for Android 
      Best clocks for Android 
      Best email apps for Android 
      Music player for Android 
      Android smartwatch for women 
      Best keyboard for Android 
      Best messaging app for Android 
      Device cleaner and booster for Android 
      Wi-Fi calling on Android 
      Google Assistant app for Android 
      How to delete apps on Android 
      Norton Security and Antivirus for Android 
      Radio apps for Android 
      Stock Android 
      Skype for Android 
      How to transfer contacts from Android to iPhone 
      Alexa app for Android 
      Best Casino Games for Android 
      Volume booster for Android 
      How to update apps on Android 
      Epson Print Enabler for Android 
      Printer apps for Android 
      Android Beam 
      Paranoid Android 
      Do Not Disturb in Android 
      How to get Android Messages on PC 
      Android Dark Mode 
      QVC app for Android 
      Weather Underground app 
      What is NFC on Android 
      Screen time Android 
      Search by Image: Google Reverse Image Search 
      How to record screen on Android 
      How to split screen on Android 
      Reddit app for Android 
      TweakBox for Android 
      Best PS2 Emulators for Android 
      Pop-up Blocker in Android 
      Android Easter Egg 
      Drudge report Android apps 
      3DS Emulator Android 
      Terrarium TV App for Android 
      Best Android Cleaner Apps 
      Spectrum TV App for Android 
      Android 11 
      Radar Detector Apps 
      Hotspot apps for Android 
      How to Transfer Contacts from iPhone to Android 
      Amazon app store for Android 
      Hangouts App for Android 
      Omegle Video Chat on Android 
      Outlook App for Android Mobile 
      Animoji for Android 
      What is content://com.android.browser.home/ 
      Firefox for Android 
      Movie Apps for Android 
      POF Free Dating App for Android 
      PS4 Remote Play for Android 
      Best Android Games 
      Best Android TV Boxes 
      How to Clear Cookies on Android 
      How to Reset Android Phone 
      Malwarebytes for Android 
      How to Find Wi-Fi Password on Android 
      How to Install APK on Android 
      How to Unlock Android Phone 
      How to Block Text Messages on Android 
      How to Recover Deleted Text Messages and Photos on Android 
      How to Remove Previously Synced Google Account from Android 
      How to Transfer Contacts from Android to Android 
      How to Set up Voicemail on Android 
      How to Share Wi-Fi Password from iPhone to Android 
      How to Backup Android Phone 
      What Version of Android Do I Have 
      How to Block Website on Android Phone and Computer 
      Turn on Flash in Chrome 
      Free Music Downloader mp3 for Android 
      Who Owns Android 
      Best Notes App for Android 
      Barcode scanner apps for Android 
      How to Connect Android Phone to TV 
      Best free VPN for Android 
      Download Google Play Store App for Android 
      Do AirPods work with Android 
      How to Download Music from Youtube on Android 
      How to Empty Trash on Android 
      How to Print Text Messages from Android 
      How to Share Location on Android 
      How to change keyboard on Android phone 
      How to Hack Wi-Fi password in Android 
      How to allow or block pop-ups in Chrome browser 
      How to Enable Cookies on Android 
      How to see a blocked number and unblock them on Android 
      How to Track iPhone from an Android Phone 
      What is my Phone Number on Android 
      Best Police Radar Detector 
      How to open TIF or TIFF files on Android 
      Android Final Year Project Ideas for Computer Science 
      Android Messages for web 
      How to Change Font Style in Android Phone 
      IP Address Format and Table 
      Best Offline Android Games 
      Best Camera Apps 
      Does Apple Watch Work with Android 
      Fastest Android Emulators 
      How to Take a screenshot in Android phone 
      Best Wireless Earbuds for Android 
      How to Lock Apps on Android 
      How to turn off Google Assistant on Android 
      Parental control Android apps 
      Video player for Android 
      How to Screen Mirror or Cast Android phone on the TV 
      Best Learning Apps for Kids 
      How to Scan QR Code on an Android 
      How to Find Hidden Apps on Android 
      How to Delete Downloads on Android 
      How to Recover Deleted Videos from Android 
      Best Guitar Learning Apps 
      Extramarks Learning App 
      Vedantu Learning App 
      How to Copy and Paste on your Android 
      How to Leave a Group Text on Android and iPhone 
      How to turn off AMBER Alerts on your Android device 
      How to Move Apps to SD Card on Android 
      How to delete Preinstalled Apps on Android 
      How do I Delete Google History on my Android Phone 
      How to close apps on Android 
      How to Forward Calls on Android 
      How to Video Call on Android 
      How to Delete Gmail Account on Android Phone 
      How to Get iPhone Emojis on Android 
      How to Check Airpod Battery on Android 
      How to download apps on Android 
      How do I Disable Screen Lock on Android 
      How to transfer messages from Android to iPhone 
      How to Unzip or Extract Files on Android Device 
      How to Block Unknown Numbers on Android 
      How to Connect Xbox One Controller to Android 
      How to Make a Conference Call on Android 
      How to Delete all Emails at once on Android 
      How to Make Your Number Private on Android 
      How to make a song as a ringtone on Android 
      How to Cancel App Subscription on Android 
      
      
      Android MCQ 
      
      
      Android MCQ 
      
      
      Android Interview 
      
      
      Interview Questions 
      
      
      Android Quiz 
      
      
      Android Quiz 
      
      
      
      
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       
        
       
      
      
       
        
        
         
           
            
            next ? 
            ? prev 
            How to Connect Xbox One Controller to Android The compatibility and support to use Xbox One Controller have increased. Earlier it was made only for PC gaming. However, after the release of the Xbox One S, Microsoft began equipping its Xbox One controller with Bluetooth radios. You will be happy to hear that it works extremely well with Android phones and their games. Most people only use the Bluetooth feature to play music and file transfer in Android, but its capabilities are beyond that. Using the Bluetooth feature of your Android smartphone and tablet, you can connect the Xbox One Controller for playing games, access apps, and even browse the web pages.  If you are wondering how to connect and use Xbox One Controller to Android using Bluetooth, here, you will know. Following are the feature that Xbox One Controller offers to Android phone users: 
            
            Android phone users can use the Xbox One Controller with Android after pairing it using Bluetooth. 
            After pairing the Xbox One Controller with an Android phone, you can use the Controller to access the Android device. 
            Using the Xbox Controller, you can play mobile games on Android, but this device was not working with every app. 
            Connect Xbox One Wireless Controller with your Android The first thing you need to do is to ensure that the Xbox One Controller you are using is Bluetooth enabled. However, the new versions of Xbox One S and Xbox One X that are coming now have Bluetooth features by default. Anyone can categorize Xbox One Controllers as having Bluetooth or not with their button. The Bluetooth device has plastic around the Xbox button that matches the other parts of the Controller's colour, and the Non-Bluetooth Xbox device has differ-coloured plastic. You have to choose an Xbox One having Bluetooth to pair it with your Android phone. Steps to connect Xbox One Wireless Controller to Android phone are given below. 
            
            On your Android phone, swipe down the screen from top to pull down and visit the Shortcuts (Notification) area. 
            Tap and hold the Bluetooth icon to open it.  
            Now, make sure the Bluetooth feature is enabled. 
            Your phone automatically starts scanning for other Bluetooth devices; if it doesn't, tap on the Scan option on the screen. 
            Turn on the Xbox One Controller by pressing the Xbox button.  
            Press and hold the sync button present at the top of the Xbox controller until the Xbox button starts blinking. 
            On your Android smartphone, tap on the Pair new device. 
            Now the Xbox One Controller will appear in your phone Bluetooth list to pair. Still, if it doesn't appear in the Bluetooth list on your phone, tap again on scan on your Android devices. Once the Xbox One Controller appears in the Bluetooth list, tap on it to start the pairing process.  
            If everything works well, your Android device successfully connects to your Xbox One Controller, the Controller device will appear in the list of paired devices, and the Controller's light stops blinking. 
            Now, you will be able to use your Xbox One Wireless Controller with your Android phone. This gadget is especially useful for playing mobile games. Note: Always remember that not all apps are designed to connect with Xbox One Controllers, and also, some apps do not even respond to it. How do I confirm that my Xbox Controller has Bluetooth capability? The users who want to use their existing controllers with their Android should check whether it has Bluetooth capability or not. The easiest way to know that is by looking at the Controller. If the area around the Xbox button looks the same colour of plastic as the other part of the Controller, it shows Bluetooth enabled. On the other hand, if the Xbox button is present in a separate piece of plastic, it indicates the device does not contain a Bluetooth feature. Look at the below image that helps you to identify whether the Xbox controller contains Bluetooth or not.  If you are new to this subject, you can take advice from those already using the Xbox Controller. You can search online according to your phone's compatibility, and you don't want to spend money on a device that you can't use. Connect Xbox One Controller to iPhone The update in Apple 13 iOS allows several Android devices to use Xbox One Controller, including iPhone, to play various games. Instead, not every game is compatible with an Xbox controller. However, several popular games on the App Store support it, including popular Epic Games "Fortnite." The feature you need to connect your Xbox One Wireless Controller to iPhone 
            
            To connect the Wireless Xbox One Controller to iPhone, you must upgrade your iPhone to iOS 13. 
            If you upgrade the iPhone to iOS 13, you can easily connect an Xbox One Controller to your iPhone device. 
            The steps to pair the Xbox One Controller to your iPhone is quite easy. Below we have mentioned the steps to connect Xbox One to iPhone. How to connect an Xbox One Controller to your iPhone Before you try to connect your Xbox One to your iPhone, you have to make sure that your Xbox One Controller is Bluetooth enabled. A Bluetooth enabled Xbox Controller has plastic around the Xbox button that looks similar to other parts of the Controller's colour. While the non-Bluetooth Controller also has plastic that matches the bumpers and right and left buttons. If you have an Xbox One Controller containing a Bluetooth feature, follow the below steps to connect it to iPhone. 
            
            Press and hold the Xbox Controller logo, present at the top centre of the device until the backlight starts blinking. If you are using an Xbox One that is already paired with an Xbox One Console then press on the small button that is present between the Xbox One bumper left and right buttons. 
            Take your iPhone and open the Settings app. 
            Tap on the Bluetooth option, which you find as the first option. 
            Once you reach the Bluetooth menu, you will see a device named "Xbox Wireless Controller."  Also, be sure that your Controller is not paired with any other device; otherwise, the Controller will not appear in your iPhone. 
            Tap on the Controller that appears in the Bluetooth list, and the iPhone will ask you if you want to pair to this device. Tap on Pair.  
            If you are done with your Controller and want to disconnect it now, visit the Bluetooth menu again and tap the small "i" icon next to the connected device. After that, click on Disconnect.  
            Connect Xbox One Controller to iPad in just a few steps When we talk about the gaming experience, tapping on that glass screen doesn't equate to the responsive and excellent experience you get with a great controller gadget. If you want to enjoy the gaming experience even better on your iPad, you can pair it with an Xbox One Wireless Controller. The steps to pairing an Xbox One Controller with an iPad are simple and easy for anyone. If your Xbox One console is nearby to the Xbox Controller, then be sure to power it down completely; otherwise, there may be chances that it will disrupt the attempt for iPad pairing. Below are the steps to connect the Xbox Controller with the iPad. Connect an Xbox One Controller to iPad 
            
            Bring your Xbox One to pair mode by pressing the Controller button and the pair button until the device starts flashing, which indicates pairing mode. 
            On your iPad, open the Settings app and navigate to the Bluetooth option. 
            You will see the Xbox Controller soon appear under the Other Device section, tap on it to pair it with your iPad. 
            
            
            
            Next Topic
            How to Make a Conference Call on Android 
             
            
            ? prev 
            next ? 
             
          
        
        
       
       
      
        
        For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel:  Join Now 
       
       
      Feedback 
       
       Send your Feedback to [email protected] 
       
       
      Help Others, Please Share 
       
       
       
      
       
       
       
       
       
       Learn Latest Tutorials 
        
         
         
           
          Splunk 
           
         
         
           
          SPSS 
           
         
         
           
          Swagger 
           
         
         
           
          Transact-SQL 
           
         
         
           
          Tumblr 
           
         
         
           
          ReactJS 
           
         
         
           
          Regex 
           
         
         
           
          Reinforcement Learning 
           
         
         
           
          R Programming 
           
         
         
           
          RxJS 
           
         
         
           
          React Native 
           
         
         
           
          Python Design Patterns 
           
         
         
           
          Python Pillow 
           
         
         
           
          Python Turtle 
           
         
         
           
          Keras 
           
        
       
       
       
       Preparation 
        
         
         
           
          Aptitude 
           
         
         
           
          Reasoning 
           
         
         
           
          Verbal Ability 
           
         
         
           
          Interview Questions 
           
         
         
           
          Company Questions 
           
        
       
       
       
       Trending Technologies 
        
         
         
           
          Artificial Intelligence 
           
         
         
           
          AWS 
           
         
         
           
          Selenium 
           
         
         
           
          Cloud Computing 
           
         
         
           
          Hadoop 
           
         
         
           
          ReactJS 
           
         
         
           
          Data Science 
           
         
         
           
          Angular 7 
           
         
         
           
          Blockchain 
           
         
         
           
          Git 
           
         
         
           
          Machine Learning 
           
         
         
           
          DevOps 
           
        
       
       
       
       B.Tech / MCA 
        
         
         
           
          DBMS 
           
         
         
           
          Data Structures 
           
         
         
           
          DAA 
           
         
         
           
          Operating System 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Network 
           
         
         
           
          Compiler Design 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Organization 
           
         
         
           
          Discrete Mathematics 
           
         
         
           
          Ethical Hacking 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Graphics 
           
         
         
           
          Software Engineering 
           
         
         
           
          Web Technology 
           
         
         
           
          Cyber Security 
           
         
         
           
          Automata 
           
         
         
           
          C Programming 
           
         
         
           
          C++ 
           
         
         
           
          Java 
           
         
         
           
          .Net 
           
         
         
           
          Python 
           
         
         
           
          Programs 
           
         
         
           
          Control System 
           
         
         
           
          Data Mining 
           
         
         
           
          Data Warehouse 
           
        
       
      
     
     
      
      
       
     
     
     
      
       
      
     
      
     
     
     
      
     
      
     
      
     
     
     
      
      Javatpoint Services 
      JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on [email protected], to get more information about given services. 
       
       Website Designing
       Website Development
       Java Development
       PHP Development
       WordPress
       Graphic Designing
       Logo
       Digital Marketing
       On Page and Off Page SEO
       PPC
       Content Development
       Corporate Training
       Classroom and Online Training
       Data Entry
       
      
     
      
      Training For College Campus 
      JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at [email protected] Duration: 1 week to 2 week
     
     
     
      
      Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter  
       
       
       
       
       
       
     
     
      
       Learn Tutorials
       Learn Java
       Learn Data Structures
       Learn C Programming
       Learn C++ Tutorial
       Learn C# Tutorial
       Learn PHP Tutorial
       Learn HTML Tutorial
       Learn JavaScript Tutorial
       Learn jQuery Tutorial
       Learn Spring Tutorial
      
      
       Our Websites
       Javatpoint.com
       Hindi100.com
       Lyricsia.com
       Quoteperson.com
       Jobandplacement.com
      
      
       Our Services
       Website Development
       Android Development
       Website Designing
       Digital Marketing
       Summer Training
       Industrial Training
       College Campus Training
      
      
       Contact
       Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3
       Noida, UP, 201301, India
       Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935
       Contact Us 
       Subscribe Us 
       Privacy Policy
       Sitemap
       
       About Me
      
     
     
      © Copyright 2011-2021 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
      
      
      
     
   
   
  
   
     
 

