

 
  
  How to Delete all Emails at once on Android - javatpoint
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
   
   
   
  
  
  ? SCROLL TO TOP 
  
    
    
      
      
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           
           
       
      
      
     
     
      
       
       
      
      
       
       
      
     
     
      
       
       Home 
       Android 
       Java 
       Servlet 
       JSP 
       Struts2 
       Mail API 
       Hibernate 
       Spring 
       Design Pattern 
       Quiz 
       Projects 
       Interview Q 
       Comment  
       
       
      
     
     
     
      
     
     
     Android Training 
      
      Android Tutorial 
      
      
      Android Introduction 
      What is Android 
      History and Version 
      Android Architecture 
      Core Building Blocks 
      Android Emulator 
      Install Android 
      Setup Eclipse 
      Hello Android example 
      Internal Details 
      Dalvik VM 
      AndroidManifest.xml 
      R.java 
      Hide Title Bar 
      Screen Orientation 
      
      
      Android Widgets 
      
      
      UI Widgets 
      Working with Button 
      Toast 
      Custom Toast 
      ToggleButton 
      CheckBox 
      Custom CheckBox 
      RadioButton 
      Dynamic RadioButton 
      Custom RadioButton 
      AlertDialog 
      Spinner 
      AutoCompleteTextView 
      ListView 
      Custom ListView 
      RatingBar 
      WebView 
      SeekBar 
      DatePicker 
      TimePicker 
      Analog and Digital 
      ProgressBar 
      Vertical ScrollView 
      Horizontal ScrollView 
      ImageSwitcher 
      ImageSlider 
      ViewStub 
      TabLayout 
      TabLayout with FrameLayout 
      SearchView 
      SearchView on Toolbar 
      EditText with TextWatcher 
      
      
      Activity and Intents 
      
      
      Activity LifeCycle 
      Implicit Intent 
      Explicit Intent 
      StartActivityForResult 
      Share App Data 
      
      
      Android Fragments 
      
      
      Android Fragments 
      
      
      Android Menu 
      
      
      Option Menu 
      Context Menu 
      Popup Menu 
      
      
      Android Service 
      
      
      Android Service 
      
      
      Android AlarmManager 
      
      
      Android AlarmManager 
      
      
      Android Storage 
      
      
      Android Preferences 
      Internal Storage 
      External Storage 
      
      
      Android SQLite 
      
      
      SQLite Tutorial 
      SQLite Spinner 
      
      
      XML and JSON 
      
      
      XML Parsing SAX 
      XML Parsing DOM 
      XMLPullParser 
      JSON Parsing 
      
      
      Android Multimedia 
      
      
      MediaPlayer: Audio 
      VideoView: Video 
      Recording Media 
      
      
      Android Speech 
      
      
      TextToSpeech1 
      TextToSpeech2 
      
      
      Android Telephony 
      
      
      TelephonyManager 
      Get Call State 
      Get Call State 2 
      Simple Caller Talker 
      Phone Call 
      Send SMS 
      Send Email 
      
      
      Android Device 
      
      
      Bluetooth Tutorial 
      List Paired Devices 
      WIFI 
      
      
      Camera Tutorial 
      
      
      Camera Tutorial 
      
      
      Sensor Tutorial 
      
      
      Sensor Tutorial 
      
      
      Android Graphics 
      
      
      Android Graphics 
      
      
      Android Animation 
      
      
      Android Animation 
      
      
      Android Web Service 
      
      
      Android Web Service 
      
      
      Google Map 
      
      
      Android Google Map 
      Current Location 
      Search Location 
      
      
      Adding Ads 
      
      
      Android Google Admob 
      1) Banner Ads 
      2) Interstitial Ads 
      
      
      Android Examples 
      
      
      QR/Bar Code Scanner 
      RSS Feed Reader 
      Volley Fetch JSON 
      Android Linkify 
      Intro Slider 
      RecyclerView List 
      Swipe Del RecyclerView 
      Swipe Refresh Activity 
      Volley Library Registration Log-in Log-out 
      Network Connectivity Services 
      Firebase Authentication - Google Login 
      Android Notification 
      Using Google reCAPTCHA 
      
      
      Android Social 
      
      
      Integrating Google Sign-In 
      Integrating LinkedIn 
      Integrating Twitter 
      
      
      Android Versions 
      
      
      Android Versions 
      Android KitKat 
      Android Lollipop 
      Android Marshmallow 
      Android Nougat 
      Android Oreo 
      Android Pie 
      Android 10 
      
      
      Android Misc 
      
      
      Android Device Manager 
      Android Studio 
      Android Auto 
      Android File Transfer 
      Android Messages 
      Android TV 
      Android Screenshot 
      Android Pay 
      Android Watch 
      Android Phones 
      Android Tablets 
      Android Find My Phone 
      Android One 
      Android Wear OS 
      Android Data Recovery 
      Android Antivirus 
      Android x86 
      Android vs iPhone 
      Emulator for PC 
      Android File Manager 
      Android ad blocker 
      Android Podcast App 
      Fortnite Epic Game 
      FaceTime for Android 
      ShowBox for Android 
      Android App Store 
      Virus Removal for Android 
      Clear cache Android 
      Root Android Device 
      Android Screen Recorder 
      Block Number on Android 
      Canon printer app for Android 
      Wireless HP printer app for Android 
      How to Update Android 
      iMessage for Android 
      iCloud for Android 
      Call Recorder for Android 
      Videoder Android Apk 
      YouTube Video Downloader for Android 
      Airdrop for Android 
      RoboKiller for Android 
      Clean my Android Phone 
      How to hide apps, files, and photos on Android 
      Best weather apps with widgets for Android 
      File Transfer for Mac 
      Mobdro for Android 
      Android Screen Mirroring 
      Stock market apps 
      turn On or Off safe mode 
      Best browsers for Android 
      Best clocks for Android 
      Best email apps for Android 
      Music player for Android 
      Android smartwatch for women 
      Best keyboard for Android 
      Best messaging app for Android 
      Device cleaner and booster for Android 
      Wi-Fi calling on Android 
      Google Assistant app for Android 
      How to delete apps on Android 
      Norton Security and Antivirus for Android 
      Radio apps for Android 
      Stock Android 
      Skype for Android 
      How to transfer contacts from Android to iPhone 
      Alexa app for Android 
      Best Casino Games for Android 
      Volume booster for Android 
      How to update apps on Android 
      Epson Print Enabler for Android 
      Printer apps for Android 
      Android Beam 
      Paranoid Android 
      Do Not Disturb in Android 
      How to get Android Messages on PC 
      Android Dark Mode 
      QVC app for Android 
      Weather Underground app 
      What is NFC on Android 
      Screen time Android 
      Search by Image: Google Reverse Image Search 
      How to record screen on Android 
      How to split screen on Android 
      Reddit app for Android 
      TweakBox for Android 
      Best PS2 Emulators for Android 
      Pop-up Blocker in Android 
      Android Easter Egg 
      Drudge report Android apps 
      3DS Emulator Android 
      Terrarium TV App for Android 
      Best Android Cleaner Apps 
      Spectrum TV App for Android 
      Android 11 
      Radar Detector Apps 
      Hotspot apps for Android 
      How to Transfer Contacts from iPhone to Android 
      Amazon app store for Android 
      Hangouts App for Android 
      Omegle Video Chat on Android 
      Outlook App for Android Mobile 
      Animoji for Android 
      What is content://com.android.browser.home/ 
      Firefox for Android 
      Movie Apps for Android 
      POF Free Dating App for Android 
      PS4 Remote Play for Android 
      Best Android Games 
      Best Android TV Boxes 
      How to Clear Cookies on Android 
      How to Reset Android Phone 
      Malwarebytes for Android 
      How to Find Wi-Fi Password on Android 
      How to Install APK on Android 
      How to Unlock Android Phone 
      How to Block Text Messages on Android 
      How to Recover Deleted Text Messages and Photos on Android 
      How to Remove Previously Synced Google Account from Android 
      How to Transfer Contacts from Android to Android 
      How to Set up Voicemail on Android 
      How to Share Wi-Fi Password from iPhone to Android 
      How to Backup Android Phone 
      What Version of Android Do I Have 
      How to Block Website on Android Phone and Computer 
      Turn on Flash in Chrome 
      Free Music Downloader mp3 for Android 
      Who Owns Android 
      Best Notes App for Android 
      Barcode scanner apps for Android 
      How to Connect Android Phone to TV 
      Best free VPN for Android 
      Download Google Play Store App for Android 
      Do AirPods work with Android 
      How to Download Music from Youtube on Android 
      How to Empty Trash on Android 
      How to Print Text Messages from Android 
      How to Share Location on Android 
      How to change keyboard on Android phone 
      How to Hack Wi-Fi password in Android 
      How to allow or block pop-ups in Chrome browser 
      How to Enable Cookies on Android 
      How to see a blocked number and unblock them on Android 
      How to Track iPhone from an Android Phone 
      What is my Phone Number on Android 
      Best Police Radar Detector 
      How to open TIF or TIFF files on Android 
      Android Final Year Project Ideas for Computer Science 
      Android Messages for web 
      How to Change Font Style in Android Phone 
      IP Address Format and Table 
      Best Offline Android Games 
      Best Camera Apps 
      Does Apple Watch Work with Android 
      Fastest Android Emulators 
      How to Take a screenshot in Android phone 
      Best Wireless Earbuds for Android 
      How to Lock Apps on Android 
      How to turn off Google Assistant on Android 
      Parental control Android apps 
      Video player for Android 
      How to Screen Mirror or Cast Android phone on the TV 
      Best Learning Apps for Kids 
      How to Scan QR Code on an Android 
      How to Find Hidden Apps on Android 
      How to Delete Downloads on Android 
      How to Recover Deleted Videos from Android 
      Best Guitar Learning Apps 
      Extramarks Learning App 
      Vedantu Learning App 
      How to Copy and Paste on your Android 
      How to Leave a Group Text on Android and iPhone 
      How to turn off AMBER Alerts on your Android device 
      How to Move Apps to SD Card on Android 
      How to delete Preinstalled Apps on Android 
      How do I Delete Google History on my Android Phone 
      How to close apps on Android 
      How to Forward Calls on Android 
      How to Video Call on Android 
      How to Delete Gmail Account on Android Phone 
      How to Get iPhone Emojis on Android 
      How to Check Airpod Battery on Android 
      How to download apps on Android 
      How do I Disable Screen Lock on Android 
      How to transfer messages from Android to iPhone 
      How to Unzip or Extract Files on Android Device 
      How to Block Unknown Numbers on Android 
      How to Connect Xbox One Controller to Android 
      How to Make a Conference Call on Android 
      How to Delete all Emails at once on Android 
      How to Make Your Number Private on Android 
      How to make a song as a ringtone on Android 
      How to Cancel App Subscription on Android 
      
      
      Android MCQ 
      
      
      Android MCQ 
      
      
      Android Interview 
      
      
      Interview Questions 
      
      
      Android Quiz 
      
      
      Android Quiz 
      
      
      
      
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       
        
       
      
      
       
        
        
         
           
            
            next ? 
            ? prev 
            How to Delete all Emails at once on Android Do you get several unwanted emails in your account? Relax, you are not the single one. If your inbox contains many unwanted emails and you are looking for the process to delete all emails at once on your Android, here you will see some magic tricks. There is a drawback of the Gmail app; it doesn't have an option to delete all the emails at one click on Android. We have to select one by one from the email list to remove them.  There is no such option in Emails to delete all messages at once on Android phones. However, you can delete a large number of emails in one go using a web browser. This feature is directly not available on a mobile browser and Gmail app. But there are some tricks and settings that help you delete many emails even on Android devices, which are listed below. Delete a large number of Emails using a Web browser on a PC Generally, people prefer to search mails on the search box, and they delete them as: 
            
            Find the emails you want to delete using various ways that Gmail offers (label, unread, etc.): 
              
              Search for email based on date as before: 2018/05/01 in the top search bar; also, you can use other parameters such as has: attachment, category: social, etc. or 
              Navigate to the label such as label: updates you want to delete or 
              Select the label All to remove all emails. 
              
            Click on the link "Select all ... conversations..." that appears on the current page if you have more emails to delete. 
            Click the Delete button to delete all selected emails. It will move your deleted emails to the Trash folder.  
            To completely delete your emails go to the Trash folder and click on the link Empty Trash now. Note: Keep in mind that this action cannot be reversible. Once you delete emails from the Trash folder, you never get them back. How to Delete All Gmail Emails at Once on Android Using Chrome browser app Deleting all Gmail Emails on an Android device using a Chrome browser is the same as deleting all Gmail Emails on PC. Here's what you need to do are: 
            
            Launch your Chrome browser app on your Android phone. 
            Visit gmail.com if Google suggests opening it on the Gmail app, ignoring it, and use the web (browser) version. 
            Sign in with your Google credentials. 
            When you arrive at the inbox, tap on the menu icon present at the upper-left of the screen. Clicking on the menu opens the list of options, including inbox, labels, and more.  
            Scroll down the menu options, and you will see the Desktop link at the bottom, click on it.  
            Click on the HTML version if you prefer otherwise go-to standard. 
            Now, look at the desktop version of Gmail on your Android phone. 
            Scroll down the screen up to the bottom and click on the standard link to view Gmail in standard view.  
            If you want to delete email from social sites like Facebook, type "Facebook" in the search bar, and you will see all emails containing Facebook appear. You can also use Gmail search operators such as label: personal, label: unread, label: important to show specific emails based on category. 
            To delete the inbox messages as a whole, checkmark the selector box (just below the search button), and it will select 50 mails by default at once. Now tap on the Trash button to delete the selected 50 mails at once.  
            To display 100 mails in your inbox, tap on the Settings icon and then tap on Settings.  
            On the General settings tab, look for the Maximum page size, change its number to 100. Now, it displays 100 mails in your Gmail inbox.  
            Return to your inbox, and now you can delete 100 emails at once. 
            How to Delete All Gmail Emails at Once Using Microsoft Outlook As the name indicates, Microsoft Outlook was developed by Microsoft, with almost the same features as Google's Gmail. Here, we will see how to select all emails at once on Outlook for deleting them. Here are the steps to delete all emails at once on Android using Outlook: 
            
            Download and install the Outlook app on your Android phone from Play Store. 
            Open the app and click on Get started. 
            Select your Gmail account to continue. 
            Check your selected email, or add an account, then allow permission to access your mails. 
            Skip the screen until you reach the inbox. 
            If the mailbox doesn't display anything so far, tap on the LOAD MORE MESSAGE. 
            At the left of the filter button, you have two choices: "focused" and "other", tap on "other" to display emails in detail. 
            Wait for a few moments to load all emails successfully. 
            Tap on the menu icon (three-dots) that you will find at the upper-right corner of the screen. 
            From the list of options, tap "select all." 
            Now, click on the delete button to delete all Gmail emails at once. 
            How to Delete All Gmail Emails at Once Using MyMail The MyMail app's advantage is that it allows choosing emails based on categories like unread email, an email with a flag, or an email containing an attachment. However, a disadvantage of using this app is that you have to load all emails by scrolling until the last email appears on the screen. For this, you need a fast and stable internet connection. 
            
            Download and install the MyMail app on your Android device. 
            Open the application. 
            Now, select Google (using Gmail) under the "add your email" section. 
            Enter the Gmail account you want to use or add a new account. 
            Give access to Mymail app. 
            Wait for a few seconds until the inbox messages appear. 
            To load all emails, scroll down until the last email appears. 
            Press and hold the lowest email you have in your inbox. 
            Tap on the menu icon (three-dots) available in the upper-right corner of the screen. 
            Now, select the "select all" option. 
            Tap on the menu again. 
            Finally, tap on the delete option to delete all Gmail emails at once. 
            Wait for a few moments until the synchronization process gets complete. 
            How to Delete all Emails from Samsung Galaxy Device (Samsung Email) It is great for Samsung users as their Android devices come with a very proficient email app. That email app makes it possible to delete all email messages in one go without much attempt. What will you have for this: 
            
            Launch your Email app on a Samsung smartphone. 
            Visit the folder that contains the emails you want to delete. 
            Press and hold any email from your inbox to highlight it. 
            Click on the small circle labeled with "All" to select all email messages. You will find this option at the top-left of the screen. 
            Now, click on the Delete button to delete all selected emails. 
            Similarly, you can repeat the above process for other folders. As the deleted email messages are automatically moved to the trash folder, it is good to delete Trash contains to delete messages permanently. Follow the below steps to delete messages from the Trash folder: 
            
            Navigate to the inbox section in your Email app. 
            Tap on the menu icon (three lines) present at the upper-left of the screen. 
            Click on the "Trash" option to open the Trash screen. 
            Press and hold any email to highlight it. 
            Click on the small circle labeled with "All" to select all email messages. Similar to the above, you will find this option at the upper-left of the screen. 
            Now, click on the Delete button to permanently delete all selected emails from Trash also. 
            Always remember that once you delete your messages from the Trash folder, you can't be able to recover them. Delete All Emails on Android devices using third-party mail cleaning apps Regardless of your Android device model, there are alternate options to delete all emails at once o your Android phone. There are third-party cleaning apps that allow deleting all emails at once. You will find such apps at Google Play Store. The purpose of a third-party cleaning apps is to analyze your inbox and help you to manage your emails. Note: Always be careful about downloading and using such apps. Because several free cleaning apps make money by selling users' data. So it is recommended to use any trusted and freemium cleaning apps (with your own risk). One such trusted third-party cleaning app is Clean Email, which claims that it values your privacy and doesn't sell any user's data to third parties. Delete all emails at once on Android using the Clean Email app Clean Email is a smart inbox cleaner tool that facilitates the deletion of an unlimited number of email messages instantly at once. You can download it from Google Play Store and run it on a device running on Android 4.4 and above. Clean Email app claims that they never store, sell, or analyze your data; they focus on users' privacy. The app contains a Smart Views feature that easily categorizes your email based on their actual content like "Social", "Travel," or "Finance," regardless of the folder they are located or not. If you don't want to spend much more time on your inbox, you can directly use its Quick Clean feature. Quick Clean feature focuses your attention towards the types of messages that app users are mostly clean.  Follow the steps below to manage your email messages using Clean Email: 
            
            Download and install Clear Email on your Android smartphone. 
            Connect it with your Email service provider. 
            Click on the Quick Clean option. 
            Now, perform the task you want on each group of emails. 
             When you perform an action on a group of emails, the app creates rules based on your job performance. It makes your feature task easy to inbox management.  
            
            
            Next Topic
            How to Make Your Number Private on Android 
             
            
            ? prev 
            next ? 
             
          
        
        
       
       
      
        
        For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel:  Join Now 
       
       
      Feedback 
       
       Send your Feedback to [email protected] 
       
       
      Help Others, Please Share 
       
       
       
      
       
       
       
       
       
       Learn Latest Tutorials 
        
         
         
           
          Splunk 
           
         
         
           
          SPSS 
           
         
         
           
          Swagger 
           
         
         
           
          Transact-SQL 
           
         
         
           
          Tumblr 
           
         
         
           
          ReactJS 
           
         
         
           
          Regex 
           
         
         
           
          Reinforcement Learning 
           
         
         
           
          R Programming 
           
         
         
           
          RxJS 
           
         
         
           
          React Native 
           
         
         
           
          Python Design Patterns 
           
         
         
           
          Python Pillow 
           
         
         
           
          Python Turtle 
           
         
         
           
          Keras 
           
        
       
       
       
       Preparation 
        
         
         
           
          Aptitude 
           
         
         
           
          Reasoning 
           
         
         
           
          Verbal Ability 
           
         
         
           
          Interview Questions 
           
         
         
           
          Company Questions 
           
        
       
       
       
       Trending Technologies 
        
         
         
           
          Artificial Intelligence 
           
         
         
           
          AWS 
           
         
         
           
          Selenium 
           
         
         
           
          Cloud Computing 
           
         
         
           
          Hadoop 
           
         
         
           
          ReactJS 
           
         
         
           
          Data Science 
           
         
         
           
          Angular 7 
           
         
         
           
          Blockchain 
           
         
         
           
          Git 
           
         
         
           
          Machine Learning 
           
         
         
           
          DevOps 
           
        
       
       
       
       B.Tech / MCA 
        
         
         
           
          DBMS 
           
         
         
           
          Data Structures 
           
         
         
           
          DAA 
           
         
         
           
          Operating System 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Network 
           
         
         
           
          Compiler Design 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Organization 
           
         
         
           
          Discrete Mathematics 
           
         
         
           
          Ethical Hacking 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Graphics 
           
         
         
           
          Software Engineering 
           
         
         
           
          Web Technology 
           
         
         
           
          Cyber Security 
           
         
         
           
          Automata 
           
         
         
           
          C Programming 
           
         
         
           
          C++ 
           
         
         
           
          Java 
           
         
         
           
          .Net 
           
         
         
           
          Python 
           
         
         
           
          Programs 
           
         
         
           
          Control System 
           
         
         
           
          Data Mining 
           
         
         
           
          Data Warehouse 
           
        
       
      
     
     
      
      
       
     
     
     
      
       
      
     
      
     
     
     
      
     
      
     
      
     
     
     
      
      Javatpoint Services 
      JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on [email protected], to get more information about given services. 
       
       Website Designing
       Website Development
       Java Development
       PHP Development
       WordPress
       Graphic Designing
       Logo
       Digital Marketing
       On Page and Off Page SEO
       PPC
       Content Development
       Corporate Training
       Classroom and Online Training
       Data Entry
       
      
     
      
      Training For College Campus 
      JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at [email protected] Duration: 1 week to 2 week
     
     
     
      
      Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter  
       
       
       
       
       
       
     
     
      
       Learn Tutorials
       Learn Java
       Learn Data Structures
       Learn C Programming
       Learn C++ Tutorial
       Learn C# Tutorial
       Learn PHP Tutorial
       Learn HTML Tutorial
       Learn JavaScript Tutorial
       Learn jQuery Tutorial
       Learn Spring Tutorial
      
      
       Our Websites
       Javatpoint.com
       Hindi100.com
       Lyricsia.com
       Quoteperson.com
       Jobandplacement.com
      
      
       Our Services
       Website Development
       Android Development
       Website Designing
       Digital Marketing
       Summer Training
       Industrial Training
       College Campus Training
      
      
       Contact
       Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3
       Noida, UP, 201301, India
       Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935
       Contact Us 
       Subscribe Us 
       Privacy Policy
       Sitemap
       
       About Me
      
     
     
      © Copyright 2011-2021 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
      
      
      
     
   
   
  
   
     
 

