

 
  
  How to Block Unknown Numbers on Android - javatpoint
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
   
   
   
  
  
  ? SCROLL TO TOP 
  
    
    
      
      
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           
           
       
      
      
     
     
      
       
       
      
      
       
       
      
     
     
      
       
       Home 
       Android 
       Java 
       Servlet 
       JSP 
       Struts2 
       Mail API 
       Hibernate 
       Spring 
       Design Pattern 
       Quiz 
       Projects 
       Interview Q 
       Comment  
       
       
      
     
     
     
      
     
     
     Android Training 
      
      Android Tutorial 
      
      
      Android Introduction 
      What is Android 
      History and Version 
      Android Architecture 
      Core Building Blocks 
      Android Emulator 
      Install Android 
      Setup Eclipse 
      Hello Android example 
      Internal Details 
      Dalvik VM 
      AndroidManifest.xml 
      R.java 
      Hide Title Bar 
      Screen Orientation 
      
      
      Android Widgets 
      
      
      UI Widgets 
      Working with Button 
      Toast 
      Custom Toast 
      ToggleButton 
      CheckBox 
      Custom CheckBox 
      RadioButton 
      Dynamic RadioButton 
      Custom RadioButton 
      AlertDialog 
      Spinner 
      AutoCompleteTextView 
      ListView 
      Custom ListView 
      RatingBar 
      WebView 
      SeekBar 
      DatePicker 
      TimePicker 
      Analog and Digital 
      ProgressBar 
      Vertical ScrollView 
      Horizontal ScrollView 
      ImageSwitcher 
      ImageSlider 
      ViewStub 
      TabLayout 
      TabLayout with FrameLayout 
      SearchView 
      SearchView on Toolbar 
      EditText with TextWatcher 
      
      
      Activity and Intents 
      
      
      Activity LifeCycle 
      Implicit Intent 
      Explicit Intent 
      StartActivityForResult 
      Share App Data 
      
      
      Android Fragments 
      
      
      Android Fragments 
      
      
      Android Menu 
      
      
      Option Menu 
      Context Menu 
      Popup Menu 
      
      
      Android Service 
      
      
      Android Service 
      
      
      Android AlarmManager 
      
      
      Android AlarmManager 
      
      
      Android Storage 
      
      
      Android Preferences 
      Internal Storage 
      External Storage 
      
      
      Android SQLite 
      
      
      SQLite Tutorial 
      SQLite Spinner 
      
      
      XML and JSON 
      
      
      XML Parsing SAX 
      XML Parsing DOM 
      XMLPullParser 
      JSON Parsing 
      
      
      Android Multimedia 
      
      
      MediaPlayer: Audio 
      VideoView: Video 
      Recording Media 
      
      
      Android Speech 
      
      
      TextToSpeech1 
      TextToSpeech2 
      
      
      Android Telephony 
      
      
      TelephonyManager 
      Get Call State 
      Get Call State 2 
      Simple Caller Talker 
      Phone Call 
      Send SMS 
      Send Email 
      
      
      Android Device 
      
      
      Bluetooth Tutorial 
      List Paired Devices 
      WIFI 
      
      
      Camera Tutorial 
      
      
      Camera Tutorial 
      
      
      Sensor Tutorial 
      
      
      Sensor Tutorial 
      
      
      Android Graphics 
      
      
      Android Graphics 
      
      
      Android Animation 
      
      
      Android Animation 
      
      
      Android Web Service 
      
      
      Android Web Service 
      
      
      Google Map 
      
      
      Android Google Map 
      Current Location 
      Search Location 
      
      
      Adding Ads 
      
      
      Android Google Admob 
      1) Banner Ads 
      2) Interstitial Ads 
      
      
      Android Examples 
      
      
      QR/Bar Code Scanner 
      RSS Feed Reader 
      Volley Fetch JSON 
      Android Linkify 
      Intro Slider 
      RecyclerView List 
      Swipe Del RecyclerView 
      Swipe Refresh Activity 
      Volley Library Registration Log-in Log-out 
      Network Connectivity Services 
      Firebase Authentication - Google Login 
      Android Notification 
      Using Google reCAPTCHA 
      
      
      Android Social 
      
      
      Integrating Google Sign-In 
      Integrating LinkedIn 
      Integrating Twitter 
      
      
      Android Versions 
      
      
      Android Versions 
      Android KitKat 
      Android Lollipop 
      Android Marshmallow 
      Android Nougat 
      Android Oreo 
      Android Pie 
      Android 10 
      
      
      Android Misc 
      
      
      Android Device Manager 
      Android Studio 
      Android Auto 
      Android File Transfer 
      Android Messages 
      Android TV 
      Android Screenshot 
      Android Pay 
      Android Watch 
      Android Phones 
      Android Tablets 
      Android Find My Phone 
      Android One 
      Android Wear OS 
      Android Data Recovery 
      Android Antivirus 
      Android x86 
      Android vs iPhone 
      Emulator for PC 
      Android File Manager 
      Android ad blocker 
      Android Podcast App 
      Fortnite Epic Game 
      FaceTime for Android 
      ShowBox for Android 
      Android App Store 
      Virus Removal for Android 
      Clear cache Android 
      Root Android Device 
      Android Screen Recorder 
      Block Number on Android 
      Canon printer app for Android 
      Wireless HP printer app for Android 
      How to Update Android 
      iMessage for Android 
      iCloud for Android 
      Call Recorder for Android 
      Videoder Android Apk 
      YouTube Video Downloader for Android 
      Airdrop for Android 
      RoboKiller for Android 
      Clean my Android Phone 
      How to hide apps, files, and photos on Android 
      Best weather apps with widgets for Android 
      File Transfer for Mac 
      Mobdro for Android 
      Android Screen Mirroring 
      Stock market apps 
      turn On or Off safe mode 
      Best browsers for Android 
      Best clocks for Android 
      Best email apps for Android 
      Music player for Android 
      Android smartwatch for women 
      Best keyboard for Android 
      Best messaging app for Android 
      Device cleaner and booster for Android 
      Wi-Fi calling on Android 
      Google Assistant app for Android 
      How to delete apps on Android 
      Norton Security and Antivirus for Android 
      Radio apps for Android 
      Stock Android 
      Skype for Android 
      How to transfer contacts from Android to iPhone 
      Alexa app for Android 
      Best Casino Games for Android 
      Volume booster for Android 
      How to update apps on Android 
      Epson Print Enabler for Android 
      Printer apps for Android 
      Android Beam 
      Paranoid Android 
      Do Not Disturb in Android 
      How to get Android Messages on PC 
      Android Dark Mode 
      QVC app for Android 
      Weather Underground app 
      What is NFC on Android 
      Screen time Android 
      Search by Image: Google Reverse Image Search 
      How to record screen on Android 
      How to split screen on Android 
      Reddit app for Android 
      TweakBox for Android 
      Best PS2 Emulators for Android 
      Pop-up Blocker in Android 
      Android Easter Egg 
      Drudge report Android apps 
      3DS Emulator Android 
      Terrarium TV App for Android 
      Best Android Cleaner Apps 
      Spectrum TV App for Android 
      Android 11 
      Radar Detector Apps 
      Hotspot apps for Android 
      How to Transfer Contacts from iPhone to Android 
      Amazon app store for Android 
      Hangouts App for Android 
      Omegle Video Chat on Android 
      Outlook App for Android Mobile 
      Animoji for Android 
      What is content://com.android.browser.home/ 
      Firefox for Android 
      Movie Apps for Android 
      POF Free Dating App for Android 
      PS4 Remote Play for Android 
      Best Android Games 
      Best Android TV Boxes 
      How to Clear Cookies on Android 
      How to Reset Android Phone 
      Malwarebytes for Android 
      How to Find Wi-Fi Password on Android 
      How to Install APK on Android 
      How to Unlock Android Phone 
      How to Block Text Messages on Android 
      How to Recover Deleted Text Messages and Photos on Android 
      How to Remove Previously Synced Google Account from Android 
      How to Transfer Contacts from Android to Android 
      How to Set up Voicemail on Android 
      How to Share Wi-Fi Password from iPhone to Android 
      How to Backup Android Phone 
      What Version of Android Do I Have 
      How to Block Website on Android Phone and Computer 
      Turn on Flash in Chrome 
      Free Music Downloader mp3 for Android 
      Who Owns Android 
      Best Notes App for Android 
      Barcode scanner apps for Android 
      How to Connect Android Phone to TV 
      Best free VPN for Android 
      Download Google Play Store App for Android 
      Do AirPods work with Android 
      How to Download Music from Youtube on Android 
      How to Empty Trash on Android 
      How to Print Text Messages from Android 
      How to Share Location on Android 
      How to change keyboard on Android phone 
      How to Hack Wi-Fi password in Android 
      How to allow or block pop-ups in Chrome browser 
      How to Enable Cookies on Android 
      How to see a blocked number and unblock them on Android 
      How to Track iPhone from an Android Phone 
      What is my Phone Number on Android 
      Best Police Radar Detector 
      How to open TIF or TIFF files on Android 
      Android Final Year Project Ideas for Computer Science 
      Android Messages for web 
      How to Change Font Style in Android Phone 
      IP Address Format and Table 
      Best Offline Android Games 
      Best Camera Apps 
      Does Apple Watch Work with Android 
      Fastest Android Emulators 
      How to Take a screenshot in Android phone 
      Best Wireless Earbuds for Android 
      How to Lock Apps on Android 
      How to turn off Google Assistant on Android 
      Parental control Android apps 
      Video player for Android 
      How to Screen Mirror or Cast Android phone on the TV 
      Best Learning Apps for Kids 
      How to Scan QR Code on an Android 
      How to Find Hidden Apps on Android 
      How to Delete Downloads on Android 
      How to Recover Deleted Videos from Android 
      Best Guitar Learning Apps 
      Extramarks Learning App 
      Vedantu Learning App 
      How to Copy and Paste on your Android 
      How to Leave a Group Text on Android and iPhone 
      How to turn off AMBER Alerts on your Android device 
      How to Move Apps to SD Card on Android 
      How to delete Preinstalled Apps on Android 
      How do I Delete Google History on my Android Phone 
      How to close apps on Android 
      How to Forward Calls on Android 
      How to Video Call on Android 
      How to Delete Gmail Account on Android Phone 
      How to Get iPhone Emojis on Android 
      How to Check Airpod Battery on Android 
      How to download apps on Android 
      How do I Disable Screen Lock on Android 
      How to transfer messages from Android to iPhone 
      How to Unzip or Extract Files on Android Device 
      How to Block Unknown Numbers on Android 
      How to Connect Xbox One Controller to Android 
      How to Make a Conference Call on Android 
      How to Delete all Emails at once on Android 
      How to Make Your Number Private on Android 
      How to make a song as a ringtone on Android 
      How to Cancel App Subscription on Android 
      
      
      Android MCQ 
      
      
      Android MCQ 
      
      
      Android Interview 
      
      
      Interview Questions 
      
      
      Android Quiz 
      
      
      Android Quiz 
      
      
      
      
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       
        
       
      
      
       
        
        
         
           
            
            next ? 
            ? prev 
            How to Block Unknown Numbers on Android We all love to use the phone for sending and receiving information so that our life goes smoothly. But nowadays using the phone is becoming a bit of a problem. One of the main reasons for this is annoying calls from spam callers, telemarketing, and cold calls from companies that are mostly related to their products and services. One more thing that such callers added to their list is they use the private number function to hide their actual caller ID. If you are upset or frustrated with such callers, you can easily block them on your Android phone. You can block all unknown numbers on your Android, and potentially you can save lots of valuable time. You can also block some particular numbers on a case basis, and unblocking them is also convenient and easy. Both Android and iPhone offer inbuilt features to block annoying calls, private numbers, and unwanted calls. If your device doesn't offer an unknown call block option, you can download a third-party app that can help you. However, blocking private numbers is not advisable. The setting completely bans all private numbers, so if your friends or family using hidden numbers will also be blocked. In this article, we will discuss all the possible ways to block unknown numbers on Android phones. How to Block Unknown Numbers on your Android 
            
            On your Android phone, tap the Phone icon, which is mostly present at the bottom of the home screen. 
            Now, tap on the menu (three dots) option located at the top-right of the Phone app screen. 
            Click on the Settings from the dropdown options.  
            Tap "Block numbers" and enable the toggle button next to the "Block unknown callers."  
            How to block calls from private numbers on Android It is not always advisable to block private numbers on your phone (Android or iPhone). This setting will block all private numbers completely, so your friends or family using hidden numbers will also get blocked. Below we have mentioned the steps to block private numbers in Android phones. 
            
            Launch the Phone app on your handset.  
            Click on the menu (two dots) icon present at the upper-right corner of the screen. 
            Tap on the Settings from the dropdown options.  
            Tap on the Set rules.  
            Tap on Block calls.  
            Enable the toggle button next to Block calls from private numbers.  
            This setting effectively blocks private numbers even if the text is different. If you know any of your friends or family members who hide their caller ID when they call, a suggestion for you to warn them that you have set up such a feature in your phone. How to Block Unknown numbers in Android Unknown numbers are different from private numbers. A private number hides their caller ID and shows a Private Number on your phone's display. On the other hand, an unknown number will appear on your phone which you don't recognize. The easiest way is to block an unknown number after you receive a call from them. 
            
            Launch the phone (or dialer) app of your phone. 
            Select the number that just called, and you want to block it. 
            Tap on the information "i" icon.  
            Tap on the menu (two dots) icon that appears at the top-right of the new screen. 
            Tap on Add to blocklist.  
            Now, you can't receive a call from a blocked number as the phone automatically rejects calls from that number. Block a phone number using a third-party app If your Android device doesn't provide an in-built feature to block a phone number, or you found it lacking. You can also go for a third-party number blocking or call blocking Android app. Here, we will see how to block a phone number using some third-party Android apps. Mr. Number If your Android phone doesn't have a call blocking built-in feature, you can download the third-party app of your choice to block unknown numbers. Download and install the Mr.Number app on your Android phone and wait for a few seconds to initialize. It asks you to verify your phone number and country, but there is an option to skip that if you wish. There is an advantage to verify your number and country to use its number lookup feature. The app lets you block an individual, an area code, and even the entire country phone number.  Lookup Number Tap on one of the caller numbers. If the caller's number is marked as an Unknown Number, tap on the Lookup Number option. It will search over the web and try to find who makes a call to you. You will get 20 free lookups per month in its free version or more through in-app purchase. You can also make a direct call or send a text message to the unknown incoming number using the call or message icon, respectively, at the bottom of the screen.  Block a number To block a number, tap the Block icon present at the bottom-left of the screen. When a new screen opens, please choose whether you want to block this number automatically when a call is received or transfer it to your voicemail. Also, there is an option to Mark as Spam if it is a junk caller. The app adds that number to a spammer in its database; you can also add a comment such as the company calling. After that, tap on the "Done" to finish.  Block all unknown numbers The Mr. Number app also facilitates you to block every unknown caller. Click on the Block List option from the main screen of the app. Now, swipe to the Voicemail tab and tap on the Send Someone to Voicemail option available at the bottom of the screen. From the list of pop-up options, please tap on the All numbers, not in the my contacts option. It means calls from unknown numbers that are not saved in your contacts go directly to your voicemail, and the calls from saved contacts go normally.  Block Unknown Numbers on Stock Android Should I Answer? is another popular third-party app that blocks unknown numbers on Android phones (Stock Android) is Should I Answer? This app reviews all incoming calls, and it can be set to reject all unknown calls, including phone numbers that are not saved in your contacts list. Below we have listed the steps to block unknown numbers: 
            
            Download and install the Should I Answer app on your Android smartphone.  
            After installation, tap on the Open button in Google Play Store or launch the "Should I Answer?" app from the App Drawer list.  
            Click on the Continue button located at the bottom of the screen to proceed.  
            Visit the Settings tab.  
            Look for the "Block Incoming Call from" option in the same Settings screen. 
            Under the "Block Incoming Call from" section, enable the toggle button of any or all form the followings options: 
              
              local negative rated numbers 
              community negative rated numbers 
              numbers not stored in contacts 
              hidden numbers 
              foreign numbers 
                
            If needed, you can also block or prevent unknown numbers from texting you. To do this, scroll down to the "Block SMS & MMS from" section and enable the toggle button next to the options you want to set. 
              
              local negative rated numbers 
              community negative rated numbers 
              numbers not stored in contacts 
               
            All your settings are saved, now you can exit from app settings, and from now calls from unknown numbers are blocked.  
            
            
            
            Next Topic
            How to Connect Xbox One Controller to Android 
             
            
            ? prev 
            next ? 
             
          
        
        
       
       
      
        
        For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel:  Join Now 
       
       
      Feedback 
       
       Send your Feedback to [email protected] 
       
       
      Help Others, Please Share 
       
       
       
      
       
       
       
       
       
       Learn Latest Tutorials 
        
         
         
           
          Splunk 
           
         
         
           
          SPSS 
           
         
         
           
          Swagger 
           
         
         
           
          Transact-SQL 
           
         
         
           
          Tumblr 
           
         
         
           
          ReactJS 
           
         
         
           
          Regex 
           
         
         
           
          Reinforcement Learning 
           
         
         
           
          R Programming 
           
         
         
           
          RxJS 
           
         
         
           
          React Native 
           
         
         
           
          Python Design Patterns 
           
         
         
           
          Python Pillow 
           
         
         
           
          Python Turtle 
           
         
         
           
          Keras 
           
        
       
       
       
       Preparation 
        
         
         
           
          Aptitude 
           
         
         
           
          Reasoning 
           
         
         
           
          Verbal Ability 
           
         
         
           
          Interview Questions 
           
         
         
           
          Company Questions 
           
        
       
       
       
       Trending Technologies 
        
         
         
           
          Artificial Intelligence 
           
         
         
           
          AWS 
           
         
         
           
          Selenium 
           
         
         
           
          Cloud Computing 
           
         
         
           
          Hadoop 
           
         
         
           
          ReactJS 
           
         
         
           
          Data Science 
           
         
         
           
          Angular 7 
           
         
         
           
          Blockchain 
           
         
         
           
          Git 
           
         
         
           
          Machine Learning 
           
         
         
           
          DevOps 
           
        
       
       
       
       B.Tech / MCA 
        
         
         
           
          DBMS 
           
         
         
           
          Data Structures 
           
         
         
           
          DAA 
           
         
         
           
          Operating System 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Network 
           
         
         
           
          Compiler Design 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Organization 
           
         
         
           
          Discrete Mathematics 
           
         
         
           
          Ethical Hacking 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Graphics 
           
         
         
           
          Software Engineering 
           
         
         
           
          Web Technology 
           
         
         
           
          Cyber Security 
           
         
         
           
          Automata 
           
         
         
           
          C Programming 
           
         
         
           
          C++ 
           
         
         
           
          Java 
           
         
         
           
          .Net 
           
         
         
           
          Python 
           
         
         
           
          Programs 
           
         
         
           
          Control System 
           
         
         
           
          Data Mining 
           
         
         
           
          Data Warehouse 
           
        
       
      
     
     
      
      
       
     
     
     
      
       
      
     
      
     
     
     
      
     
      
     
      
     
     
     
      
      Javatpoint Services 
      JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on [email protected], to get more information about given services. 
       
       Website Designing
       Website Development
       Java Development
       PHP Development
       WordPress
       Graphic Designing
       Logo
       Digital Marketing
       On Page and Off Page SEO
       PPC
       Content Development
       Corporate Training
       Classroom and Online Training
       Data Entry
       
      
     
      
      Training For College Campus 
      JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at [email protected] Duration: 1 week to 2 week
     
     
     
      
      Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter  
       
       
       
       
       
       
     
     
      
       Learn Tutorials
       Learn Java
       Learn Data Structures
       Learn C Programming
       Learn C++ Tutorial
       Learn C# Tutorial
       Learn PHP Tutorial
       Learn HTML Tutorial
       Learn JavaScript Tutorial
       Learn jQuery Tutorial
       Learn Spring Tutorial
      
      
       Our Websites
       Javatpoint.com
       Hindi100.com
       Lyricsia.com
       Quoteperson.com
       Jobandplacement.com
      
      
       Our Services
       Website Development
       Android Development
       Website Designing
       Digital Marketing
       Summer Training
       Industrial Training
       College Campus Training
      
      
       Contact
       Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3
       Noida, UP, 201301, India
       Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935
       Contact Us 
       Subscribe Us 
       Privacy Policy
       Sitemap
       
       About Me
      
     
     
      © Copyright 2011-2021 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
      
      
      
     
   
   
  
   
     
 

