

 
  
  How do I set up a home network - javatpoint
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
   
   
   
  
  
  ? SCROLL TO TOP 
  
    
    
      
      
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           
           
       
      
      
     
     
      
       
       
      
      
       
       
      
     
     
      
       
       Home 
       Computer Fundamentals 
       C 
       Java 
       PHP 
       HTML 
       CSS 
       Bootstrap 
       JavaScript 
       jQuery 
       jQuery UI 
       Quiz 
       Projects 
       Interview Q 
       Comment 
       Forum 
       Training 
       
       
     
     
     
     
      
     
     
      
      Computer 
      
      
      Computer Fundamentals 
      What is Computer 
      History of Computer 
      Types of Computer 
      
      
      Computer Components 
      
      
      Computer Components 
      Input Devices 
      Output Devices 
      Central Processing Unit 
      Hardware 
      Software 
      Operating System 
      
      
      Computer Memory 
      
      
      Computer Memory 
      Register Memory 
      Cache Memory 
      Primary Memory 
      RAM 
      ROM 
      Secondary Memory 
      Memory Units 
      
      
      Computer Network 
      
      
      Computer Network 
      
      
      Computer Virus 
      
      
      Computer Virus 
      
      
      Number Systems 
      
      
      Number Systems 
      
      
      Internet 
      
      
      Internet 
      Intranet 
      Extranet 
      Website 
      
      
      Shortcut Keys 
      
      
      Computer Shortcut Keys 
      
      
      Terms 
      
      
      Windows 
      Computer Ports 
      Program 
      Printers 
      Microphone 
      Monitor 
      Motherboard 
      Incognito Mode 
      Mouse 
      Memory Card 
      What is a CD 
      What is ID 
      ISO 
      What is Character 
      What is a server 
      What is E-mail 
      What is Keyboard 
      What is Remote 
      What is Webcam 
      What is Data 
      What is URL 
      What is keypad 
      What is hub 
      What is File 
      Bytes 
      Exabyte 
      Gb 
      Kilobyte 
      Megabyte 
      Petabyte 
      Terabyte 
      What is HDD 
      What is SSD 
      Memory vs Storage 
      Non-volatile memory 
      What is M.2 SSD 
      How To Reboot A Computer 
      Multi-Level Cell 
      NAND Flash Memory 
      What is lock screen 
      Block Storage 
      USB flash drive 
      VRAM 
      Cloud Hosting 
      CompactFlash card 
      What is WAP? 
      Classification of Memory 
      Hardware vs Software 
      Uses of Computer 
      Uses of Internet 
      What is Abacus 
      Best Proxy Servers 
      SSL vs TLS 
      Web Console 
      What is the GPU 
      LAN vs WAN 
      SSD vs HDD 
      Introduction to Computer 
      Data Migration 
      JEDEC 
      MLC vs TLC vs SLC NAND Flash 
      VirtualBox Installation 
      Num Lock 
      What is a PC 
      What is MAC 
      Continuous Data Protection 
      Persistent Storage 
      What is Bit 
      Software Definition 
      What is a File System 
      When was the first computer invented 
      How many generations of the computer 
      Minicomputer 
      Fourth Generation of Computer 
      What is a Username 
      What is ALU 
      
      
      Questions 
      
      
      How to backup iPhone to Computer 
      How To Flip Computer Screen 
      What is Computer Science 
      How To Speed Up Computer 
      Why is my Computer so slow 
      How much do computer engineers make 
      How to Clean Computer Screen 
      What is Computer Engineering 
      What is Quantum Computing 
      How does a computer work 
      How to Check Computer Specs 
      How to find computer IP address 
      How to find computer name 
      How to wipe a Computer 
      Advantages of the Internet 
      Disadvantages of the Internet 
      Advantages of Computer 
      What are the disadvantages of a computer 
      How to factory reset a computer 
      How to Build a Computer 
      How to Post on Instagram from Computer 
      How much do Computer Programmers make 
      How to Fax from Computer 
      How much does a computer cost 
      How To Change Computer Name 
      How to Connect Computer to TV 
      How To Connect Printer To Computer 
      What is Computer Programming 
      How To Download Music From YouTube To Computer 
      What is Edge Computing 
      How To Download YouTube Videos To Computer 
      How To Authorize A Computer on iTunes 
      How To Connect Airpods To Computer 
      How To Defrag a Computer 
      Is Computer Science Hard 
      What Does RAM Do In A Computer 
      Who invented the computer 
      How To Change Computer Password 
      How To Hack A Computer 
      How To Download Music To Computer 
      What Does Compute Mean 
      How Does A Quantum Computer Works 
      How to clean Computer 
      How to Edit Your File on Windows, Linux and MacOS 
      How to Set up SSH SOCKS Tunnel for Private Browsing in Windows 
      Small Computer System Interface 
      What is Cyber Law 
      How To Backup Computer 
      How To Scan A Document To Computer 
      How to Transfer Photos from Android to Computer 
      What can you do with Computer Science Degree 
      What is a Desktop 
      Second Generation of Computer 
      Third Generation of Computer 
      Fourth Generation of Computer 
      Fifth Generation of Computer 
      input vs output device 
      What is USB 
      What is Recycle Bin 
      What is Hybrid Topology 
      Cache Memory vs Virtual Memory 
      What is a storage device 
      What is a Crimping Tool 
      What is HDMI 
      What is a Video Card 
      GPU vs CPU 
      What is a Sound Card 
      Blu-ray vs. DVD 
      What is a Floppy Disk 
      What is a DIP Switch 
      What is a Template 
      History of Computer Networking 
      What is a Firmware 
      What is a Hard Copy 
      What are the Computer Cables 
      What is a Text File 
      What is a Sound Card 
      What is a Projector 
      What is a Light Pen 
      What is LCD 
      What is Data Manipulation 
      What is Webmail 
      What is a Vacuum Tube 
      What is a VDU 
      What is Parallel Computing 
      What is a transistor 
      What is a Joystick 
      What is a Speaker 
      What is a Dynamic Website 
      What is BIOS 
      What is a Linker 
      What is a Hyphen 
      What is MP3 
      What is File Explorer 
      What is Video 
      What is a Temporary File 
      What is X86 
      What is Ethernet 
      What is the Digital Assistant 
      What is a Language Processor 
      What is a Network Drive 
      What is an Optical Disc 
      What is a Logic Bomb 
      What is a MacBook 
      What is a Print Spooler 
      What Are Plugins 
      What is a Telephone 
      What is Flash 
      What is a Hotspot 
      Why does my computer turn off without warning 
      Why is my Wi-Fi not working 
      What is a Home Page 
      What is Word Wrap 
      Why does my laptop not turn on 
      How to install an antivirus program on a computer 
      What is a Low-Level Language 
      Why don't any keys on my keyboard work 
      How to Fix it When Your Mouse Scroll is Not Working 
      What is Myspace 
      What is Safe Mode 
      How many keys are on a computer keyboard 
      What is Reboot 
      Why does Windows restart without warning 
      How to increase your download speed 
      Why is my Internet connection so slow 
      Why is my online game so slow 
      How to Test the Speed of Your Internet Connection 
      Should I upgrade or buy a new computer 
      What makes a computer fast and powerful 
      Protect children from harmful material and people on the Internet 
      What is a Multicore Processor 
      Why does my download stop before it is finished 
      How to protect yourself while on the Internet 
      Is Facebook safe 
      Is online banking safe 
      How do I know if my computer was hacked 
      How to prevent unauthorized computer access 
      What should I do if I've been hacked 
      How to be anonymous on the Internet 
      What things to do when bored on the Internet 
      How do I set up a home network 
      How to connect a printer to your home network 
      How to open or forward a port on a router 
      Is it possible to crash or shut down the entire Internet 
      What is a plotter 
      
      
      MCQ 
      
      
      Computer Fundamental MCQ 
      Computer Fundamental MCQ 2 
      
      
      Interview Questions 
      
      
      HR Interview 
      
      
      
      
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       
        
       
      
      
       
        
        
         
           
            
            next ? 
            ? prev 
            How do I set up a home network? Users can play network games and share printers, files, broadband Internet access, and many more with the help of setting up a home network. Make a list of everything you want to be able to accomplish with your network before you set it up. The following options will lead you to a number of different computer networks that you may set up at home.  Peer-to-peer network A peer-to-peer (P2P) network is when two or more computer systems are connected and share resources without the need for a second server computer. Two computers, which are linked with the help of a Universal Serial Bus (USB) for the purpose of sharing data, a peer-to-peer (P2P) network is an ad hoc connection between them. A peer-to-peer network can also refer to a long-term infrastructure that uses copper lines in order to connect a half-dozen computers in a small firm. Estimated setup time: 10-15 Minutes Advantages and capabilities 
            
            A peer-to-peer network has the potential to connect two computers. 
            It allows the users to share files, as well as play network games. 
            It's simple to expand the peer-to-peer network with the help of adding new nodes. This only increases the system's ability to share data. 
            Disadvantages 
            
            Only two computers in peer to peer network can be linked to the network at a time. 
            As the data is scattered across numerous computers and there is no central server, backing it up is difficult. 
            As each system is independent and maintains its own data; therefore, providing overall security in a peer-to-peer network is not easy. 
            Required hardware and software 
            
            Two computers with installed and operational 10/100 Ethernet network cards. 
            Network crossover cable 
            Microsoft Windows 95 and 98 steps 
            
            In the device manager, check that your network cards are properly installed and that you have the most recent network drivers for the cards you have installed. 
            Next, connect the two computers with the help of using a USB cable. 
            You may view Network properties with the help of navigating to Start > Settings > Control Panel and double-clicking "Network." 
            Check to see if your network card is displayed as a component of a network. It's important to note that this is not the dial-up adaptor. 
            Make sure your network adapter supports TCP/IP and IPX/SPX. You will need to install one or both of these protocols if one or both aren't listed for your network device. 
            Click the "File and Print Sharing" option in the Network box once the protocols have been installed. You must choose whether or not to share files and prints on this machine in this window. Apply this technique to all of the machines. 
            With the help of selecting the network adapter's TCP/IP protocol and clicking the "Properties" button to configure it, set up the TCP/IP protocol. 
            Select "Specify an IP address" from the Properties menu. Fill in the blanks with a value to the one shown in the example. IP Address: 102.55.92.1 Subnet Mask: 255.255.255.192 
            Once the IP address and Subnet mask have been established, close all windows and restart the computer system. 
            Microsoft Windows ME, 2000, and XP steps 
            
            In the device manager, check that your network cards are properly installed and that you have the most recent network drivers for the cards you have installed. 
            Next, connect the two computers with the help of using a USB cable. 
            You may view Network properties with the help of navigating to Start > Settings > Control Panel and double-clicking "Network." 
            Then, Local Area Connection" should be double-clicked. 
            Select "Properties" from the drop-down menu. 
            Make sure your network adapter supports TCP/IP and IPX/SPX. You will need to install one or both of these protocols if one or both aren't listed for your network device. 
            Once the protocols have been installed, make sure that File and Print sharing is enabled in the Network window. If you wish to share files and prints on this system, click the install button and select File and Print Sharing. 
            You may configure the TCP/IP protocol by choosing the Internet Protocol (TCP/IP) protocol for the network adapter and clicking the "Properties" button. 
            From the Properties menu, choose "Specify an IP address." Enter a value that resembles the examples below. IP Address: 102.55.92.1 Subnet Mask: 255.255.255.192 The IP address of each machine must be unique. As a result, it could be 102.55.92.2 with the same subnet mask on the second machine. 
            Once the IP address and Subnet mask have been established, close all windows and restart the computer system. 
            Network with file sharing In the same house, a coworker, or a friend in another country, the process of transferring one or more computer files through a network with someone is known as file sharing. With the help of file sharing, you can also access your files remotely. Advantages and capabilities: It allow you to connect more than two computers to the network. Disadvantages: It needs additional hardware as well as funds. Estimated setup time: 20-30 minutes. Required hardware and software 
            
            Standard network cables 
            Installed and operational 10/100 Ethernet network cards on computers 
            Network Switch or Hub 
            Microsoft Windows 95 and 98 Steps 
            
            In the device manager, check that your network cards are properly installed and that you have the most up-to-date network drivers for the cards you have installed. 
            The network switch or hub should be connected to each machine. 
            You may view Network properties with the help of navigating to Start > Settings > Control Panel and double-clicking "Network." 
            Check to see if your network card is displayed as a component of a network. It's important to note that this is not the dial-up adaptor. 
            Make sure your network adapter supports TCP/IP and IPX/SPX. Then, for your network adapter. you need to install the protocol if one or both of these protocols are not displayed. 
            Once the protocols have been installed, check that File and Print sharing is enabled in the Network pane. If you wish to share files and prints on this system, click the install button and select File and Print Sharing. 
            With the help of selecting the network adapter's TCP/IP protocol and clicking the "Properties" button to configure it, set up the TCP/IP protocol. 
            Select "Specify an IP address" from the Properties menu. Fill in the blanks with a value to the one shown in the example. IP Address: 102.55.92.1 Subnet Mask: 255.255.255.192 The IP address of each machine must be unique. As a result, it could be 102.55.92.2 with the same subnet mask on the second machine. 
            Once the IP address and Subnet mask have been established, close all windows and restart the computer system. 
            Microsoft Windows ME, 2000, and XP steps 
            
            In the device manager, check that your network cards are properly installed and that you have the most up-to-date network drivers for the cards you have installed. 
            The network switch or hub should be connected to each machine. 
            You may view Network properties with the help of navigating to Start > Settings > Control Panel and double-clicking "Network." 
            Then, Local Area Connection" should be double-clicked. 
            Select "Properties" from the drop-down menu. 
            Make sure your network adapter supports TCP/IP and IPX/SPX. Then, you need to install the protocol if either one or both of these protocols are not displayed for your network adapter. 
            Once the protocols have been installed, check that File and Print sharing is enabled in the Network pane. Click the install button and select File and Print Sharing if you want to allow file and print sharing on this machine. 
            With the help of selecting the network adapter's TCP/IP protocol and clicking the "Properties" button to configure it, set up the TCP/IP protocol. 
            Select "Specify an IP address" from the Properties menu. Fill in the blanks with a value to the one shown in the example. IP Address: 102.55.92.1 Subnet Mask: 255.255.255.192 The IP address of each machine must be unique. As a result, it could be 102.55.92.2 with the same subnet mask on the second computer system. 
            Once the IP address and Subnet mask have been established, close all windows and restart the computer system. 
            Network with modem Internet sharing Advantages and capabilities: In the house, the modem connection can be shared by all computers. Disadvantages 
            
            It needs additional hardware as well as funds. 
            The connection appears to be very slow if numerous people are surfing or downloading files at the same time; because a modem has limited bandwidth. 
            Estimated setup time: This network takes 30-40 minutes to establish the connection. Required hardware and software 
            
            Installed and operational 10/100 Ethernet network cards on computers 
            Usually, it requires a hub, switch, or network router. 
            A computer with a software proxy installed. 
            Network with broadband Internet sharing Advantages and capabilities: In the house, the broadband Internet connection can be shared by all computers. Disadvantages 
            
            It needs additional hardware as well as funds. 
            Estimated setup time: This network takes 40-50 minutes to establish the connection. Required hardware and software 
            
            Installed and operational 10/100 Ethernet network cards on computers. 
            A computer that has a proxy program installed. 
            It requires a hub, switch, or network router. 
            Router requirements When choosing a network router, look for the qualities listed below. 
            
            WAN Port 
            Support for NAT 
            Uplink ports 
            Hardware setup There are two methods for constructing this network, as indicated in the picture below. We suggest selecting "Method One" is the best approach because it enables the connection of many computers. It is possible to save money with the help of not acquiring a network hub or switch.  Method one 
            
            Connect the router's WAN port to the broadband Internet connection. 
            Connect the router to a network hub or switch. 
            Connect the hub or switch to each of the computers. 
            Your broadband provider will offer you network settings; you need to enter this setting in your network router. 
            Method two 
            
            Connect the WAN port of the router to your high-speed Internet connection. 
            Connect the router to each PC. You will have to use the first technique to set up the network if each computer does not have enough ports. 
            Your broadband provider will offer you network settings; you need to enter this setting in your network router. 
            Wired vs. Wireless Home Network Because most routers support both wired and wireless networks, it is not necessary to choose one over the other when purchasing a router. The devices themselves, their capabilities, and how you want to use them will decide the connection you choose. Over the last two decades, wireless networks have improved to the point where they can in the present compete with wired networking in terms of maximum performance. Wi-Fi 6 (802.11ax), the most recent iteration, offers a theoretical maximum bandwidth of around 1,200 Megabytes per second or 9.6 Gigabits per second. That's on par with the fastest Ethernet connections; however, such speeds are challenging to attain reliably even in near-ideal conditions. As compared to speed, more important is Wi-Fi 6's capacity that has the potential to support many more devices on the same network across numerous channels. It allows more devices to run at near-peak levels, decreases network congestion, whether they are transmitting streaming material or data across the internet. Unfortunately, Wi-Fi 6 is only supported by high-end routers and a small number of wireless gadgets. Wi-Fi 5 (802.11ac) is more widely available, yet it's still fast, with a theoretical maximum speed of 438 Megabits per second (3.5 Gigabits per second). On the same network, it is not as effective at handling large groups of users, although that's more of an issue for those with more than a few users at once, especially if they are using their devices close together. Wired home networks, on the other hand, may easily maximize network performance and are unaffected by congestion, with the only real constraints being the speed of their Ethernet cables and network interfaces. Unlike wireless networks, Ethernet cables may be routed through walls and do not suffer from signal loss. Wired Ethernet cables are still the best option for the fastest connection; however, they are the most dependable connection. Also, they're not as portable or versatile as wireless. As a result, fixed devices such as game consoles, desktop computers, and televisions are best served by a wired home network. A Wi-Fi connection is typically the ideal solution for laptops, tablets, smartphones, and other internet-connected smart devices. Setting Up a Home Network It's time to set up the network now that you have all of the necessary hardware. The first step is to set up the modem that was most likely given by your Internet service provider. Turn it on and connect it to your phone line. It is a good idea to eliminate the router functions with the help of turning the modem to bridge mode at this stage if you want to use your own router and your original modem also serves as a router. You will need to log into the admin panel to do so. The IPCONFIG command is also used in Windows' Command Prompt, or the IP address in order to know how to connect to it. You can disable it in the Wi-Fi settings as well if your modem/router has its own Wi-Fi connection. Also, if you are not linked to your new home network with an Ethernet cable, you will lose your connection; thus, make sure you are connected to your new home network with an Ethernet cable. Turn on your router and connect it to the modem with the help of using an Ethernet connection at this point. If a dedicated LAN port isn't available, connect it to the first Ethernet port, either 0 or 1. Then, using an Ethernet wire, connect whatever device you are using to set up the router to the new router. In the same way that you did with your previous modem/router, log into the admin panel of the new router. It's a good idea to alter the default password if you wish to improve security; they can be easy to guess or brute-force hack. Also, change your Wi-Fi password to something more unique. Upgrading the firmware is also a good idea to take this opportunity. The manufacturer's website has the most recent firmware available; you can download it from there. This can assist in increasing security and guarantee that the router is operating at peak performance. You may use fixed IP addresses for devices that will stay on the network, or at the very least utilize it on a regular basis while connecting your particular devices to the router. Dynamic IP addresses (DHCP) can be used; however, they change frequently, which can be problematic for some networked devices, such as printers, and if something goes wrong, it makes troubleshooting difficult. If you wish to manually assign an IP address, go to the device's IP address settings. This can be accessed with the help of right-clicking the network connection and selecting Properties in Windows. If you want to use powerline or MoCA adapters, Wi-Fi extenders, or network switches in order to expand your network, do so now and configure them according to the manufacturer's instructions. Once they are set up, you will be able to start adding devices to the network with the help of using an Ethernet cable or with the of connecting them into a free Ethernet port on the router/switch to connect them to the router/switch. 
            
            
            Next Topic
            How to connect a printer to your home network 
             
            
            ? prev 
            next ? 
             
          
        
        
       
       
      
        
        For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel:  Join Now 
       
       
      Feedback 
       
       Send your Feedback to [email protected] 
       
       
      Help Others, Please Share 
       
       
       
      
       
       
       
       
       
       Learn Latest Tutorials 
        
         
         
           
          Splunk 
           
         
         
           
          SPSS 
           
         
         
           
          Swagger 
           
         
         
           
          Transact-SQL 
           
         
         
           
          Tumblr 
           
         
         
           
          ReactJS 
           
         
         
           
          Regex 
           
         
         
           
          Reinforcement Learning 
           
         
         
           
          R Programming 
           
         
         
           
          RxJS 
           
         
         
           
          React Native 
           
         
         
           
          Python Design Patterns 
           
         
         
           
          Python Pillow 
           
         
         
           
          Python Turtle 
           
         
         
           
          Keras 
           
        
       
       
       
       Preparation 
        
         
         
           
          Aptitude 
           
         
         
           
          Reasoning 
           
         
         
           
          Verbal Ability 
           
         
         
           
          Interview Questions 
           
         
         
           
          Company Questions 
           
        
       
       
       
       Trending Technologies 
        
         
         
           
          Artificial Intelligence 
           
         
         
           
          AWS 
           
         
         
           
          Selenium 
           
         
         
           
          Cloud Computing 
           
         
         
           
          Hadoop 
           
         
         
           
          ReactJS 
           
         
         
           
          Data Science 
           
         
         
           
          Angular 7 
           
         
         
           
          Blockchain 
           
         
         
           
          Git 
           
         
         
           
          Machine Learning 
           
         
         
           
          DevOps 
           
        
       
       
       
       B.Tech / MCA 
        
         
         
           
          DBMS 
           
         
         
           
          Data Structures 
           
         
         
           
          DAA 
           
         
         
           
          Operating System 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Network 
           
         
         
           
          Compiler Design 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Organization 
           
         
         
           
          Discrete Mathematics 
           
         
         
           
          Ethical Hacking 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Graphics 
           
         
         
           
          Software Engineering 
           
         
         
           
          Web Technology 
           
         
         
           
          Cyber Security 
           
         
         
           
          Automata 
           
         
         
           
          C Programming 
           
         
         
           
          C++ 
           
         
         
           
          Java 
           
         
         
           
          .Net 
           
         
         
           
          Python 
           
         
         
           
          Programs 
           
         
         
           
          Control System 
           
         
         
           
          Data Mining 
           
         
         
           
          Data Warehouse 
           
        
       
      
     
     
      
      
       
     
     
     
      
       
      
     
      
     
     
     
      
     
      
     
      
     
     
     
      
      Javatpoint Services 
      JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on [email protected], to get more information about given services. 
       
       Website Designing
       Website Development
       Java Development
       PHP Development
       WordPress
       Graphic Designing
       Logo
       Digital Marketing
       On Page and Off Page SEO
       PPC
       Content Development
       Corporate Training
       Classroom and Online Training
       Data Entry
       
      
     
      
      Training For College Campus 
      JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at [email protected] Duration: 1 week to 2 week
     
     
     
      
      Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter  
       
       
       
       
       
       
     
     
      
       Learn Tutorials
       Learn Java
       Learn Data Structures
       Learn C Programming
       Learn C++ Tutorial
       Learn C# Tutorial
       Learn PHP Tutorial
       Learn HTML Tutorial
       Learn JavaScript Tutorial
       Learn jQuery Tutorial
       Learn Spring Tutorial
      
      
       Our Websites
       Javatpoint.com
       Hindi100.com
       Lyricsia.com
       Quoteperson.com
       Jobandplacement.com
      
      
       Our Services
       Website Development
       Android Development
       Website Designing
       Digital Marketing
       Summer Training
       Industrial Training
       College Campus Training
      
      
       Contact
       Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3
       Noida, UP, 201301, India
       Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935
       Contact Us 
       Subscribe Us 
       Privacy Policy
       Sitemap
       
       About Me
      
     
     
      © Copyright 2011-2021 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
      
      
      
     
   
   
  
   
     
 

