

 
  
  How to take Screenshot in Kali Linux - javatpoint
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
   
   
   
  
  
  ? SCROLL TO TOP 
  
    
    
      
      
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           
           
       
      
      
     
     
      
       
       
      
      
       
       
      
     
     
      
       
       Home 
       Java 
       Kali Linux 
       Ethical Hacking 
       Linux 
       Shell Scripting 
       C 
       SQL 
       HTML 
       CSS 
       JavaScript 
       XML 
       Ajax 
       Python 
       Android 
       Quiz 
       Projects 
       Interview Q 
       Forum 
       
       
     
     
     
     
      
     
     
      
      Kali Linux Tutorial 
      
      
      Kali Linux Tutorial 
      Install Kali Linux 
      Configuring & Updating 
      Kali Linux Commands 
      
      
      Kali Linux Tools 
      
      
      Information Gathering Tools 
      Vulnerability Analysis Tools 
      Exploitation Tools 
      Wireless Attack Tools 
      Forensic Tools 
      Web Application Tools 
      Stress Testing Tools 
      Sniffing & Spoofing Tools 
      Password Attack Tools 
      Maintaining Access Tools 
      Reverse Engineering Tools 
      Hardware Hacking Tools 
      Reporting Tools 
      Hacking Wifi using Kali Linux 
      
      
      Misc. 
      
      
      Kali Linux Latest Version 
      Kali Linux net hunter 
      Making a Kali Bootable USB Drive 
      Kali Linux - Terminal 
      Kali Linux root password reset 
      Enable Root User in Kali Linux 
      How to hack a Facebook account using Kali Linux 
      How to Install XAMPP in Kali Linux 
      How to run a java program on Kail Linux 
      How to install XDM on Kali Linux 
      Features of Kali Linux 
      Use of Kali Linux 
      How to install VPNbook on Kali Linux 
      How to Check Kali Linux Version 
      Kali Linux System Requirements 
      Advantages and Disadvantages of Kali Linux 
      Kali Linux Tools List 
      How to install AnyDesk on Kali Linux 
      Best WiFi Adapters for Kali Linux 
      Install Mozilla Firefox In Kali Linux 
      Kali Linux vs Fedora 
      Sqlmap in Kali Linux 
      Skipfish in Kali Linux 
      Kali Linux Basic Commands 
      Kali Linux Shortcut Keys 
      How to take Screenshot in Kali Linux 
      How to Update Kali Linux 
      How to Change Time in Kali Linux 
      Kill Process 
      Social Engineering in Kali Linux 
      
      
      Interview Questions 
      
      
      Kali Linux Interview 
      
      
      
      
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       
        
       
      
      
       
        
        
         
           
            
            next ? 
            ? prev 
            How to take Screenshot in Kali Linux In this tutorial, we will discuss how to take a screenshot in Kali Linux. In Kali Linux, there are some utilities which we can use to take a screenshot, and this tutorial, will make sure you're familiar with them. In this tutorial we will learn: 
            
            How to take a screenshot with Kali's screenshot utilities 
            How to use Kazam to take screenshots and screencasts 
            How to use Flameshot for screenshots and annotations 
            Shortcut Keys to take a screenshot 
            Kali's Built-in Screenshot Utilities When we download and install Kali, there are plenty of desktop environments to choose from. The primary GUI option is XFCE, although we can also choose KDE or GNOME. These distinct desktop environments have a built-in screenshot utility, so we already have one installed by default, regardless of which GUI we are using. They're all the same, but they work in various ways. For example, when we press the PrtSc (print screen) key in XFCE, a small window appears, offering us several options for dealing with the image we just captured:  When we press the PrtSc key in GNOME, our screen flashes, and a camera shutter sound plays, but nothing happens. Our screenshot can be found in the Pictures folder in our home directory.  We can't cover every GUI here, but enough to mention that the built-in utility can be used by pressing PrtSc. By default, our whole desktop will be captured in the image. If we need to capture a particular window, we can bring that window to the foreground and press Alt + PrtSc. For more fine-grained control, simply open the Screenshot utility from our GUI's application launcher.  The built-in screenshot tool will usually permit us to select an area of the screen to capture and choose whether or not to capture the mouse pointer in the image. Some are more powerful and may contain extra features.  Kazam Kazam is another feasible alternative for screenshots, which comes pre-installed on Kali Linux. If in case it is not installed in our system, then we need to make sure it's up to date; in order to install/update it, we have to execute the following commands: 
           
            
$ sudo apt update
$ sudo apt install Kazam

            Once it's been installed, we can open it in our GUI's application launcher. Kazam has the ability to record our screen, which is a major selling factor. We must ensure that "screenshot" is selected if we need to take an image, and "screencast" is selected if we need to record a video.  Flameshot The above-mentioned default screenshot utilities are a little light in feature. Flameshot is an alternate tool to consider, particularly if we want to annotate our screenshots with arrows and have access to other useful features. We have to run the following commands in order to install Flameshot: 
           
            
$ sudo apt update
$ sudo apt install flameshot

              Flameshot can be found on the apps launcher once it has been installed. We may also run it from the terminal with the help of the following command: 
           
            
$ flameshot gui

            When Flameshot opens, simply follow the on-screen instructions. We can drag our mouse around and very easily resize the widow to capture exactly what we need to on our screen. We'll see a variety of tools for annotating or uploading our screenshots. But hold on! There's more! We can configure Flameshot's interface and other options inside the configuration menu: 
           
            
$ flameshot config

              Flameshot comes with several command-line options as well. For a complete list of what it can accomplish, see the man page.  
           
            
$ man flameshot

              Shortcut Keys to Take Screenshot in Kali Linux 
            
            
              
              Shortcut Keys 
              Description 
              
              
              Print Screen 
              Using this shortcut key, we can take a screenshot 
              
              
              Alt + Print Screen 
              Using this shortcut key, we can take a screenshot of a window. 
              
              
              Ctrl + Print Screen 
              With the help of this shortcut key, we can take a screenshot to clipboard. 
              
              
              Ctrl + Alt + Print Screen 
              With the help of this shortcut key, we can take a screenshot of window to the clipboard. 
              
              
              Ctrl + Shift + Print Screen 
              Using this shortcut, we can take a screen of an area to the clipboard. 
              
              
              Shift + Ctrl + Alt + R 
              Using this screenshot, we can record a screencast. 
              
            
            
            
            
            Next Topic
            How to Update Kali Linux 
             
            
            ? prev 
            next ? 
             
          
        
        
       
       
      
        
        For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel:  Join Now 
       
       
      Feedback 
       
       Send your Feedback to [email protected] 
       
       
      Help Others, Please Share 
       
       
       
      
       
       
       
       
       
       Learn Latest Tutorials 
        
         
         
           
          Splunk 
           
         
         
           
          SPSS 
           
         
         
           
          Swagger 
           
         
         
           
          Transact-SQL 
           
         
         
           
          Tumblr 
           
         
         
           
          ReactJS 
           
         
         
           
          Regex 
           
         
         
           
          Reinforcement Learning 
           
         
         
           
          R Programming 
           
         
         
           
          RxJS 
           
         
         
           
          React Native 
           
         
         
           
          Python Design Patterns 
           
         
         
           
          Python Pillow 
           
         
         
           
          Python Turtle 
           
         
         
           
          Keras 
           
        
       
       
       
       Preparation 
        
         
         
           
          Aptitude 
           
         
         
           
          Reasoning 
           
         
         
           
          Verbal Ability 
           
         
         
           
          Interview Questions 
           
         
         
           
          Company Questions 
           
        
       
       
       
       Trending Technologies 
        
         
         
           
          Artificial Intelligence 
           
         
         
           
          AWS 
           
         
         
           
          Selenium 
           
         
         
           
          Cloud Computing 
           
         
         
           
          Hadoop 
           
         
         
           
          ReactJS 
           
         
         
           
          Data Science 
           
         
         
           
          Angular 7 
           
         
         
           
          Blockchain 
           
         
         
           
          Git 
           
         
         
           
          Machine Learning 
           
         
         
           
          DevOps 
           
        
       
       
       
       B.Tech / MCA 
        
         
         
           
          DBMS 
           
         
         
           
          Data Structures 
           
         
         
           
          DAA 
           
         
         
           
          Operating System 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Network 
           
         
         
           
          Compiler Design 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Organization 
           
         
         
           
          Discrete Mathematics 
           
         
         
           
          Ethical Hacking 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Graphics 
           
         
         
           
          Software Engineering 
           
         
         
           
          Web Technology 
           
         
         
           
          Cyber Security 
           
         
         
           
          Automata 
           
         
         
           
          C Programming 
           
         
         
           
          C++ 
           
         
         
           
          Java 
           
         
         
           
          .Net 
           
         
         
           
          Python 
           
         
         
           
          Programs 
           
         
         
           
          Control System 
           
         
         
           
          Data Mining 
           
         
         
           
          Data Warehouse 
           
        
       
      
     
     
      
      
       
     
     
     
      
       
      
     
      
     
     
     
      
     
      
     
      
     
     
     
      
      Javatpoint Services 
      JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on [email protected], to get more information about given services. 
       
       Website Designing
       Website Development
       Java Development
       PHP Development
       WordPress
       Graphic Designing
       Logo
       Digital Marketing
       On Page and Off Page SEO
       PPC
       Content Development
       Corporate Training
       Classroom and Online Training
       Data Entry
       
      
     
      
      Training For College Campus 
      JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at [email protected] Duration: 1 week to 2 week
     
     
     
      
      Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter  
       
       
       
       
       
       
     
     
      
       Learn Tutorials
       Learn Java
       Learn Data Structures
       Learn C Programming
       Learn C++ Tutorial
       Learn C# Tutorial
       Learn PHP Tutorial
       Learn HTML Tutorial
       Learn JavaScript Tutorial
       Learn jQuery Tutorial
       Learn Spring Tutorial
      
      
       Our Websites
       Javatpoint.com
       Hindi100.com
       Lyricsia.com
       Quoteperson.com
       Jobandplacement.com
      
      
       Our Services
       Website Development
       Android Development
       Website Designing
       Digital Marketing
       Summer Training
       Industrial Training
       College Campus Training
      
      
       Contact
       Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3
       Noida, UP, 201301, India
       Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935
       Contact Us 
       Subscribe Us 
       Privacy Policy
       Sitemap
       
       About Me
      
     
     
      © Copyright 2011-2021 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
      
      
      
     
   
   
  
   
     
 

