

 
  
  How to Draw a Line in Photoshop - javatpoint
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
   
   
   
  
  
  ? SCROLL TO TOP 
  
    
    
      
      
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           
           
       
      
      
     
     
      
       
       
      
      
       
       
      
     
     
      
       
       Home 
       Photoshop 
       GIMP 
       After Effect 
       Illustrator 
       Dreamweaver 
       Adobe InDesign 
       CorelDRAW 
       HTML 
       JavaScript 
       Java 
       SQL 
       Python 
       Android 
       Cloud 
       Servlet 
       JSP 
       
       
     
     
     
     
      
     
     
      
      Photoshop Tutorial 
      
      
      Photoshop Tutorial 
      Download & Install 
      Photoshop Workspace 
      Shortcut keys 
      Layers in PS 
      PS Layer Mask 
      Smart object in PS 
      Layer Effects & Styles 
      Shapes in Photoshop 
      How to Remove Background of an Image Using Photoshop 
      How to Resize an Image in Photoshop 
      Blending Modes in Photoshop 
      Photoshop Brush Tool 
      Photoshop Pen Tool 
      How to Change Color in Photoshop 
      How to Resize a layer in Photoshop 
      How to Add Fonts in Photoshop 
      How to Crop an Image in Photoshop 
      Photoshop Vs Illustrator 
      Photoshop Vs Lightroom 
      Affinity Photo Vs. Photoshop 
      How to Curve Text in Photoshop 
      How to Flip an Image in Photoshop 
      Clipping Mask in Photoshop 
      How to Deselect in Photoshop 
      How to Smooth Edges in Photoshop 
      Drop Shadow in Photoshop 
      How to Add Image in Photoshop 
      How to Draw a Line in Photoshop 
      How to Outline Text in Photoshop 
      How to Undo/Redo in Photoshop 
      Make Gif in Photoshop 
      Blur Tool in Photoshop 
      Photoshop Filters 
      
      
      
      
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       
        
       
      
      
       
        
        
         
           
            
            next ? 
            ? prev 
            How to Draw a Line in Photoshop Drawing a line in Photoshop is a straightforward process. But, it may be complicated for you if you never did it before. Most people select the brush, pencil, or pen tool to create a line. The line created by these tools may not be straight. However, we can create a straight line using these tools as well. There are several ways to create straight, horizontal, and curved lines in Photoshop. The question arises of which will be the most convenient way to create a line, depending on what kind of line you want to create. Some useful tools for creating a line are line tool, brush tool, pen tool, and pencil tool. The line tool is considered the easiest way to create a straight line. We can access the line tool under the Photoshop shape tools given in the toolbox. We can easily customize the line tool's lines such as strokes, thickness, etc. To create a line using the line tool, we have to drag out the pointer on the canvas, and it will create a new line. Like the line tool, the lines are easily created using other tools such as pen and brush tools. We have to press the Shift key for a straight line while dragging out the pointer. Let's get deeper into the line tool and other tools to create a new line. In this tutorial, we will discuss how to draw straight, horizontal, and curved lines using Photoshop. Further, we will discuss few tips for creating lines to create it as your expectations. Let's discuss each tool and understand how to create and customize the line using these tools: Photoshop Line Tool The line tool is one of the finest tools for creating a straight line. It can be found under the Photoshop shape tools. It creates a very thin rectangle using the stroke adjustment to provide the thickness of the width of the line. It is very easy to use the line tool. We can also create curved lines using the line tool. However, it isn't very easy to customize the curved lines. But we can customize the curved lines by following the warping layer rather than following a path. Let's go through the different methods and techniques to create and customize the lines using the line tool in Photoshop. Drawing a Line Using the Line Tool To create a line using the line tool, first, we need to create a new document. To create a new document, press the Ctrl+N key combination; it will open a new dialogue window. Here, specify the document size and background according to your requirement. The document with white background is considered as an ideal background. But, we can also choose a transparent background if required.  Click OK to create a new document. It will create a document of the specified size and background. Now, we can draw any shape on this document. To draw a line, activate the line tool. The Line tool can be found under the shape tools category, which is accessible using the U key. But, the line tool may not be your default tool, so it may activate the rectangle, ellipse, or any other shape tool as per your previous usage. The best way is to activate the line tool is to hold the shape icon in the toolbox. It will display all the available tool options.  Click on the Line Tool to activate it. Now, our line tool is activated. Make sure to customize it before using it. We can see several customization options such as thickness, color, etc., on the top options bar menu. Before drawing a line, double-check whether the line tool is selected as a shape or not.  If it is set to the path or fill pixels, click on the shape layers options highlighted in the above image. Now, our line will be created as a shape, not as a path. The next thing is to customize the width of the line, which can be set in the weight field. Define the width of the line. We can set it from 1 px to any of the required values. As we have discussed earlier in this article, the line tool works as a small rectangle format, so when we increase the weight of the line, it will increase the size of the rectangle that will be drawn.  Provide the width value in the above-highlighted section. Now, the next thing that is to be customized is the color of the line. The color is the last option in the above-given options bar. Click on the color box and specify any of the desired color.  Now, we are all set to draw a line. If we drag off the cursor, it will draw a line according to our hand movement, which may not be straight. So if you want to create a straight line, press the Shift key while dragging the pointer. It will create a proper straight line. Below are some examples of lines drawn using the line tool:  We have drawn few lines using the different weight values and the same color on dragging the pointer in different directions. Similarly, we can draw other lines with different colors and angles. Now, understand how to draw curved lines using the Line tool: How to Draw Curved Lines in Photoshop While drawing a line using the Shift key and dragging the pointer, we cannot make the curved lines; we can create straight lines at different angles. It will automatically set the line to an appropriate angle. Drawing a curved line is a quite tricky process. To draw a line on an exact angle, we have to combine two tools which are the Line tool and the transform tool. We can set the height, width, direction, and line wave using the transform tool. The Line tool creates a thin rectangle to make it a curve like a wave or an arc. Instead, we can use the warp adjustment tool to make it curved and wavy. To make a curved line, create a line, then activate the transform tool by pressing the Ctrl+T keys. Then select the warp mode icon from the options bar, which will appear after activating the transform tool.  Once we have activated the warp tool, it will display several handles on the line, just like the pen tool.  We can stretch these handles to create a shape, curve, or anything according to our imagination. However, there are many presets options available that will be very useful if you want to draw something like that.  The presets option can be accessed by the Warp drop-down menu available on the options bar window. For example, if we want to create an arc, we can select the arc option from these presets options, automatically converting the line into an arc. Also, we can define the bend angle from the bend option given just near the warp menu. The line tools work fine and easiest way for creating lines, but there are few limitations of the line tools that makes it an undesirable choice. For example, it does not work fine for creating lines along with a specific edge or shape that requires high-level expertise so that you can manually set it. However, it does most of the work for us, so we do not need to worry about adjustment. Here, other tools such as pen tools and brush tools come into the picture. Let's understand how to draw lines using the pen tool and brush tool. How to Draw Lines Using the Pen Tool The pen tool is one of the most creative and versatile tools provided by Photoshop. We can create anything that we can imagine using the Pen tool. It is used to create paths, shapes, selections, and even lines. It provides us with complete control over the path, which can be adjusted and reused. No matter, what we want to create, the pen tool allows us to create every type of lines, such as wave, straight line, lightning lines, and more. The pen tool's creativity is limitless. To create a line using the pen tool, activate the pen tool by pressing the P key or select it from the toolbox by clicking on the below icon:  Before drawing with a pen tool, we can also customize it. Make sure it is set to shape, not on the path. If it is not set to the shape by default, set it to shape by clicking on the below icon:  Next, we can set its color and other preferences from the above options bar. Once everything is set for your preferences, click anywhere on the image canvas to draw with the pen tool. First, start selecting the anchor points; these anchor points will control and define the drawing path. When we select the first anchor point, it will be your starting anchor point, and just clicking on a different spot will make it an ending anchor point and create a straight line for these endpoints. If we want to create a wavy line, click and drag an anchor point to curve a path; it will curve the drawing line.  To create an accurate straight line using the pen tool, we can simply follow the process that we used in the line tool. Press the Shift key while selecting another anchor point; it will go straight to create a line. How to Draw a line using Brush Tool A brush tool is also an effective tool for drawing a straight line; we can easily draw and colorize the straight lines. Additionally, it is much more effective than other line tools and pen tools to create stylish straight lines. We can choose from a wide range of available brushes in Photoshop to provide a style to the line. To create a line using the brush tool, first, we need to activate the brush tool. We can activate the brush tool by pressing the B key. Alternatively, we can select it from the toolbox give left to the workspace by clicking on the below icon:  It will activate the brush tool; now customize it using the options bar menu. There are several options available for the brush tool, such as size, color, style, and more to customize it.  Once we are done with the customization, we can start drawing using the brush tool. It works in a similar way a line tool does. To create a straight line, hold the Shift key and drag out the pointer in any direction where you want to create a line. To create a shape using multiple lines, we can keep following the process in different directions. Once we are done with the drawing, release the mouse pointer. Just like the Line tool, the brush tool also supports stroke settings to adjust its hardness, opacity, styles, and more settings from the options bar. The lines drawn with the brush tool are very soft in look. Below are some lines are drawn with the brush tool:  Now, we can easily draw lines using different tools in Photoshop. Summary: There are several ways to create straight, horizontal, and curved lines in Photoshop. The question arises of which will be the most convenient way to create a line, depending on what kind of line you want to create. We have discussed some useful tools for creating a line, such as a line tool, brush tool, pen tool. Now, we can understand the difference between lines drawn by these tools and their respective usage. So, you can choose any of the above tools that match your requirement. One common thing in all the above-discussed tools is the Shift key, which takes the pointer in a proper straight direction to draw a line. 
            
            
            Next Topic
            How to Outline Text in Photoshop 
             
            
            ? prev 
            next ? 
             
          
        
        
       
       
      
        
        For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel:  Join Now 
       
       
      Feedback 
       
       Send your Feedback to [email protected] 
       
       
      Help Others, Please Share 
       
       
       
      
       
       
       
       
       
       Learn Latest Tutorials 
        
         
         
           
          Splunk 
           
         
         
           
          SPSS 
           
         
         
           
          Swagger 
           
         
         
           
          Transact-SQL 
           
         
         
           
          Tumblr 
           
         
         
           
          ReactJS 
           
         
         
           
          Regex 
           
         
         
           
          Reinforcement Learning 
           
         
         
           
          R Programming 
           
         
         
           
          RxJS 
           
         
         
           
          React Native 
           
         
         
           
          Python Design Patterns 
           
         
         
           
          Python Pillow 
           
         
         
           
          Python Turtle 
           
         
         
           
          Keras 
           
        
       
       
       
       Preparation 
        
         
         
           
          Aptitude 
           
         
         
           
          Reasoning 
           
         
         
           
          Verbal Ability 
           
         
         
           
          Interview Questions 
           
         
         
           
          Company Questions 
           
        
       
       
       
       Trending Technologies 
        
         
         
           
          Artificial Intelligence 
           
         
         
           
          AWS 
           
         
         
           
          Selenium 
           
         
         
           
          Cloud Computing 
           
         
         
           
          Hadoop 
           
         
         
           
          ReactJS 
           
         
         
           
          Data Science 
           
         
         
           
          Angular 7 
           
         
         
           
          Blockchain 
           
         
         
           
          Git 
           
         
         
           
          Machine Learning 
           
         
         
           
          DevOps 
           
        
       
       
       
       B.Tech / MCA 
        
         
         
           
          DBMS 
           
         
         
           
          Data Structures 
           
         
         
           
          DAA 
           
         
         
           
          Operating System 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Network 
           
         
         
           
          Compiler Design 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Organization 
           
         
         
           
          Discrete Mathematics 
           
         
         
           
          Ethical Hacking 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Graphics 
           
         
         
           
          Software Engineering 
           
         
         
           
          Web Technology 
           
         
         
           
          Cyber Security 
           
         
         
           
          Automata 
           
         
         
           
          C Programming 
           
         
         
           
          C++ 
           
         
         
           
          Java 
           
         
         
           
          .Net 
           
         
         
           
          Python 
           
         
         
           
          Programs 
           
         
         
           
          Control System 
           
         
         
           
          Data Mining 
           
         
         
           
          Data Warehouse 
           
        
       
      
     
     
      
      
       
     
     
     
      
       
      
     
      
     
     
     
      
     
      
     
      
     
     
     
      
      Javatpoint Services 
      JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on [email protected], to get more information about given services. 
       
       Website Designing
       Website Development
       Java Development
       PHP Development
       WordPress
       Graphic Designing
       Logo
       Digital Marketing
       On Page and Off Page SEO
       PPC
       Content Development
       Corporate Training
       Classroom and Online Training
       Data Entry
       
      
     
      
      Training For College Campus 
      JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at [email protected] Duration: 1 week to 2 week
     
     
     
      
      Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter  
       
       
       
       
       
       
     
     
      
       Learn Tutorials
       Learn Java
       Learn Data Structures
       Learn C Programming
       Learn C++ Tutorial
       Learn C# Tutorial
       Learn PHP Tutorial
       Learn HTML Tutorial
       Learn JavaScript Tutorial
       Learn jQuery Tutorial
       Learn Spring Tutorial
      
      
       Our Websites
       Javatpoint.com
       Hindi100.com
       Lyricsia.com
       Quoteperson.com
       Jobandplacement.com
      
      
       Our Services
       Website Development
       Android Development
       Website Designing
       Digital Marketing
       Summer Training
       Industrial Training
       College Campus Training
      
      
       Contact
       Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3
       Noida, UP, 201301, India
       Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935
       Contact Us 
       Subscribe Us 
       Privacy Policy
       Sitemap
       
       About Me
      
     
     
      © Copyright 2011-2021 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
      
      
      
     
   
   
  
   
     
 

