

 
  
  How to unprotect Excel sheet without password - javatpoint
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
   
   
   
  
  
  ? SCROLL TO TOP 
  
    
    
      
      
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           
           
       
      
      
     
     
      
       
       
      
      
       
       
      
     
     
      
       
       Home 
       Excel 
       MS Word 
       PowerPoint 
       C 
       C# 
       Java 
       PHP 
       HTML 
       SQL 
       PL/SQL 
       Python 
       Web Services 
       Quiz 
       Projects 
       Interview Q 
       Comment 
       Forum 
       Training 
       
       
     
     
     
     
      
     
     
      
      MS Excel Tutorial 
      
      
      Excel Tutorial 
      Workbook Window 
      Create & Open Workbooks 
      MS Excel Online 
      Excel vs Google Sheets 
      Office Button 
      Ribbon and Tabs 
      Features of Tabs 
      Quick Access Toolbar 
      Mini Toolbar 
      Title, Help, Zoom, View 
      
      
      Excel Worksheet 
      
      
      Worksheet, Row, Column 
      Moving on Worksheet 
      Enter Data 
      Select Data 
      Delete Data 
      Move Data 
      Copy Paste Data 
      Spell Check 
      Insert Symbols 
      
      
      Excel Calculation 
      
      
      Addition 
      Sigma Addition 
      Subtraction 
      Calculate Average 
      Sigma Average 
      
      
      Excel Fill Handle 
      
      
      Fill Handle 
      Fill Handle with Text 
      Text with Numbers 
      Fill Handle with Dates 
      
      
      Excel Formula 
      
      
      Create Formula 
      Fill Handle in Formula 
      Relative Referencing 
      Absolute Referencing 
      Instruction for Typing 
      Quick Excel Functions 
      
      
      Excel IF 
      
      
      If Function 
      If with Calculations 
      Excel COUNTIF 
      Advanced If 
      
      
      Excel Advanced 
      
      
      Excel Macros 
      Excel sumif 
      Excel vlookup 
      What is Pivot Table 
      Excel ISNA 
      Find & Remove Duplicates 
      Create drop-down List 
      Merge cells in Excel 
      
      
      Misc 
      
      
      How to enable macros in excel 
      How to calculate age in Excel 
      How to create a Pivot Table in excel 
      How to enable the Developer Tab in Excel 
      How to Calculate Standard Deviation in Excel 
      How to Calculate Time Difference in Excel 
      How to Freeze Cells in Excel 
      What-if Analysis in Excel 
      How To Insert Checkbox in MS Excel 
      How To Insert PDF in MS Excel 
      How to change the Date Format in Excel 
      How to compare two Excel sheet 
      How To Apply Filter In Excel 
      How To Move Columns In Excel 
      How to add or remove Hyperlink in Excel 
      How to calculate Mean in Excel 
      How to Separate text in Excel 
      How to recover a macro in Excel 
      How to recover a Corrupted Excel file 
      How to recover an Excel file 
      How to remove comma in Excel 
      How to sum a column in Excel 
      How to remove the filter in Excel 
      How to remove gridlines in Excel 
      How To Convert Excel To CSV 
      How To Create Table in Excel 
      How to Calculate IRR in Excel 
      How to Count Characters in Excel 
      How to Make an Excel Sheet 
      How to Replace Words in Excel 
      How to Sort by Date in Excel 
      How to hide formulas in Excel 
      How to subtract in excel 
      How to use the IF function in Excel 
      How To Create A Graph In Excel 
      How to use concatenate in Excel 
      How to spell check in Excel 
      How to Change Lowercase to Uppercase in Excel 
      How to Create a Dashboard in Excel 
      How to Delete Duplicate Rows in Excel 
      How to use sumifs formula in Excel 
      How to add page break in Excel 
      How to remove the page break in Excel 
      How to Convert Columns to Rows in Excel 
      How to Convert Number to Words in Excel 
      How to Make a Table in Excel 
      How to Put Tick Mark in Excel 
      How to Remove Passwords from Excel File 
      How to Wrap Text in Excel 
      How to insert comments in Excel 
      How to add/remove Password from Excel 
      How to use MS Excel 
      How to sort in Excel 
      How to record a macro in Excel 
      How Many Rows and Columns in Excel 2007 
      How to Search in Excel 
      How to add a text box in Excel 
      How to save Excel document 
      How to set background image in Excel 
      How to use COUNTIF function in Excel 
      How to import the data from CSV file in Excel 
      How to unlock scroll lock in Excel 
      What is a cell in Excel 
      Uses of MS Excel 
      How to Reduce Excel File Size 
      How to Save Excel File as PDF 
      ODS to Excel 
      How to lock cells in Excel 
      How to unlock cells in Excel 
      Hyperlink in Excel 
      How to compare two columns in Excel 
      Conditional formatting in Excel 
      How to define custom rules for conditional formatting in Excel 
      Data validation in Excel 
      Apply data validation in Excel 
      Remove spaces in Excel 
      How to Save Excel File 
      Watermark in Excel 
      How to unhide columns in Excel 
      How to delete blank rows in Excel 
      Excel round off formula 
      How to Add Watermark in Excel 
      How to Remove Watermark in Excel 
      Excel Save As Shortcut 
      Excel Shortcut Keys 
      Excel match function 
      HLOOKUP formula in Excel 
      What is the file extension for Excel 
      Offset function in Excel 
      Compound interest formula in Excel 
      Excel password remover 
      FV() function in Excel 
      MS Excel Definition 
      What is Excel 
      Excelity login 
      Income tax calculating formula in Excel 
      Google Excel Spreadsheet 
      Online Excel Viewer 
      Online Excel Editor 
      How to make pie charts in excel 
      How to calculate number of days between two dates in Excel 
      Excel Download 
      Download MS Office 2019 using command prompt 
      Download Windows and MS office activator 
      Excel Header and Footer 
      Excel to JPG 
      JPG to Excel 
      Salary slip format in Excel 
      How to count colored cells in Excel 
      Excel Substring formula 
      CSV to Excel 
      Word to Excel 
      Regression analysis in Excel 
      How to calculate CAGR in Excel 
      Excel to Word 
      Percentage formula in Excel 
      Mail merge in Excel 
      How to unhide rows in Excel 
      How to Split Cells in Excel 
      Current Date in Excel 
      Index function in Excel 
      How to remove formula in Excel 
      Excel Features 
      Flash Fill in Excel 
      How to convert Excel to JSON 
      Convert Excel to JSON using VBA code 
      Round formula in Excel 
      Excel formula 
      Ratio in Excel 
      Excel Delete Row Shortcut 
      Insert Column Excel Shortcut 
      Excel not equal to operator 
      Logical operators in Excel 
      Delete Data in Excel 
      Excel Slicer 
      Excel Difference Between Two Dates 
      Excel Filter Shortcut 
      Excel Charts 
      Excel text function 
      Excel LOOKUP() function 
      MS Excel Grade Formula 
      10 Disadvantages of Microsoft Excel 
      Shortcut Keys in Excel 2010 
      Advanced Formulas in Excel 
      Excel Merge Cells Shortcut 
      Excel Paste Special Shortcut 
      INDIRECT() function in Excel 
      What is Relative Reference in Excel 
      Excel Sum Shortcut 
      Redo Shortcut in Excel 
      Arrow key is not working in Excel 
      Type of charts in Excel 
      Nested If Function in Excel 
      Lower() in excel 
      Proper() in excel 
      Types of References in Excel 
      AND Function in Excel 
      How to do subtraction in Excel 
      Excel MAX() Function 
      How to delete a Sheet in Excel 
      How to Insert Chart in Excel 
      Excel ISERROR() function 
      Excel add-ins 
      IF() in excel 
      REPT() in excel 
      What is Formatting in Excel 
      OR Function in Excel 
      Solver in Excel 
      Excel AVERAGE() Function 
      Excel MIN() Function 
      Format Painter in Excel 
      COUNTA function in excel 
      Excel mid function 
      Excel right function 
      Excel Choose Function 
      How to Use RIGHT Function in Excel 
      NOT Function in Excel 
      Excel COUNT() Function 
      Line Chart Excel 
      Excel RAND() function 
      Excel find() function 
      Excel tricks 
      Dollar function in excel 
      Left formula in excel 
      Randbetween function in excel 
      ROUNDDOWN Function in Excel 
      Tenure Formula in Excel 
      Excel TODAY and NOW 
      How to unhide worksheet in Excel 
      Freeze panes in Excel 
      Excel PMT Function 
      NETWORKDAYS Formula in Excel 
      Pivot Chart in Excel 
      Excel Hide Shortcut 
      Unhide Shortcut in Excel 
      Range in Excel 
      Strikethrough in Excel 
      How to password protect an Excel sheet 
      Page Orientation in Excel 
      Area Chart in Excel 
      Bubble Chart Excel 
      Autofill in Excel 
      Convert rows to columns 
      Analysis ToolPak 
      Zoom In/Out in Excel 
      Excel Format Painter Shortcut 
      Excel Wrap Text Shortcut 
      Uppercase Shortcut in Excel 
      How to make a bar chart in Excel 
      JSON to Excel 
      Sparkline chart 
      Why MS Excel is Important 
      Waterfall Chart Excel 
      Excel IRR formula 
      Excel Pareto chart 
      Column Chart 
      Formatting Charts 
      Pie Chart 
      Doughnut Chart Excel 
      Scatter Plot Excel 
      Text to column in Excel 
      Excel IFERROR() function 
      Excel Median() function 
      Gantt Chart Excel 
      Consolidate data in Excel 
      Excel Strikethrough Shortcut 
      Flow Chart Excel 
      Organization Chart Excel 
      Excel box plot 
      Excel Transpose Function 
      Circular reference in Excel 
      Excel Filter Function 
      Excel VAR.S() Function 
      Email Workbook 
      Share Workbook 
      Correlation in Excel 
      How many sheets are there in excel workbook by default 
      What is Mod Function in Excel 
      Compatibility mode in Excel 
      How to unprotect Excel sheet without password 
      Adding Graphics 
      Translate Worksheet 
      Excel Large Function 
      Excel Rank Function 
      Cross Referencing in Excel 
      Using Themes in Excel 
      Excel IFNA Function 
      Excel TRIM Function 
      Excel DATEVALUE Function 
      Excel SUBSTITUTE Function 
      Special Symbols in Excel 
      
      
      Shortcut Keys 
      
      
      Excel Shortcut Keys 
      
      
      Interview Questions 
      
      
      Excel Interview 
      HR Interview 
      SQL Interview 
      PL/SQL Interview 
      
      
      
      
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       
        
       
      
      
       
        
        
         
           
            
            next ? 
            ? prev 
            How to unprotect Excel sheet without password? Excel users set password on their Excel sheets to make the file data secure from other users. They protect the worksheet with a password when they do not want other users to edit the data and worksheet structure without their permission. So, any user who does not know the password of the respective workbook, they cannot modify it. To make a password-protected sheet editable requires a password before making any change in the data or structure of the worksheet. If the user does not know the password, he fails to do it. This chapter will define the methods to unprotect the Excel sheet with and without a password. Protected worksheet vs Protected workbook Do not get confused between a protected worksheet and a protected workbook. When you protect a workbook, a whole worksheet with all worksheets inside it will get protected. On the other side, when you protect a worksheet, an individual worksheet will get protected. Following are some operations that can and cannot be performed on Excel worksheet and Excel workbook. Protected worksheet 
            
            When an Excel sheet is protected, that particular worksheet structure gets locked. 
            When an Excel sheet is protected, you cannot enter, update, modify and delete the data of the protected sheet. 
            If the users want to make changes in protected worksheet data, they have to unprotect the workbook using a valid password to perform these operations. 
            However, users can perform operations with other sheets on the same workbook. 
            When a workbook is protected, users can add, delete, remove, move, hide, unhide sheets of that workbook except protected one. 
            Protected workbook 
            
            When a workbook is protected, workbook structure gets locked. 
            You cannot perform such operations add, delete, remove, move, hide, unhide sheets of that workbook. 
            The users have to unprotect the workbook to perform these operations. 
            However, user can perform operations with sheets data when a workbook is protected, like - enter, remove, update sheets data. 
            Unprotected worksheet without password An Excel user does not write something inside the protected sheet. A sheet can be protected either using a password or without password. They have to unprotect the sheet to make it editable. Without unprotecting the sheet no one can edit it. A password-protected requires password while unprotecting the sheet. On the other side, sheet protected without password does not require password. We will describe both methods to unprotect the sheet without password. These three methods we have discussed below: Method 1: Unprotect the protected sheet Method 2: Unprotect the password-protected worksheet Method 3: Unprotect the password-protected sheet without password Method 1: Unprotect the protected sheet It will be very easy for the users if the worksheet is protected without using password. It means that the sheet is locked, but the user did not use password while protecting it. In that scenario, any Excel user can easily unprotect the worksheet without having password. They just need to follow a few simple steps and the worksheet will be unprotected. 
           
            A worksheet protected without password does not require password while unprotecting.
            See the steps to unprotect the worksheet that is protected without password - Step 1: Open the targeted Excel document that contains a protected sheet inside it. Here, Sheet2 is a protected worksheet.  Step 2: If you try to write or modify something in this protected worksheet, you will get the following warning message -  Hence, we have to unprotect this sheet to make it editable. Step 3: On the Excel ribbon, navigate to the Review tab.  Step 4: You will see Unprotect Sheet option inside the Protect group that was earlier Protect Sheet. Click on this option.  It will visible only if the sheet is protected. Tip: If a sheet is not protected, you will not find the option Unprotected Sheet. You will find it as Protect Sheet instead of that. Once the Unprotect Sheet option is clicked, the current sheet will be unprotected. It will not ask for the password while unprotected. Step 5: You can now edit, delete, enter, and modify data on this worksheet.  If the sheet is password protected, it will ask for the password that was used while protecting the worksheet. Note: You can find the Unprotect Sheet option by right-clicking on the protected sheet. Method 2: Unprotect the password-protected worksheet See the steps to unprotect the worksheet that is protected using password - Step 1: Open the targeted Excel document that contains a protected sheet inside it. This time, Sheet2 is password protected worksheet.  Step 2: If you try to write or modify something in this protected worksheet, you will get the following warning message -  Hence, we have to unprotect this sheet to make it editable. Step 3: On the Excel ribbon, navigate to the Review tab.  Step 4: You will see Unprotect Sheet option inside the Protect group that was earlier Protect Sheet. Click on this option.  Step 5: A popup will open asking for the password to unprotect the sheet. Enter the password that was used while protecting the sheet and click OK.  Step 6: The current sheet will be unprotected. Now, you can perform edit, delete, enter, and modify data on this worksheet.  Method 3: Unprotect the password-protected sheet without password Sometimes, the user forgets after protecting a sheet using password. He has no idea about the password. A protected sheet is uneditable. So, the user cannot modify its data without unprotected it. There is no way to recover the password using forget password. Excel offers no way like this. In that scenario, what to do. Instead of the forget password method, Excel offers other ways to unprotect the password-protected sheet without a password. Using VBA code The algorithm of Excel password protection is based on the simple encryption technique. One can easily crack the password of the password-protected sheet using the VBA code. They just have to run the macro written using VBA code to identify the password of the protected sheet. One more time we are protecting the Sheet2 (the same worksheet) to learn the unprotect sheet without password using VBA code. Steps to unprotect sheet using VBA Following are the steps to unprotect the worksheet without password using VBA code - Step 1: Open the Excel file and navigate to the password-protected Excel sheet. Here, Sheet2 is a protected worksheet.  Step 2: Go to the Developer tab and click the View Code option that is available under the Control group.  Step 3: A code editor like below will open in Microsoft visual studio. On the left panel of this code editor, right-click on the password-protected worksheet and select Insert > Module.  Step 4: A new module like below will insert.  Step 5: Now, write the following VBA code in that code editor window of the selected worksheet module. 
           
            
Sub PasswordBreaker()
Dim i As Integer, j As Integer, k As Integer
Dim l As Integer, m As Integer, n As Integer
Dim i1 As Integer, i2 As Integer, i3 As Integer
Dim i4 As Integer, i5 As Integer, i6 As Integer
On Error Resume Next
For i = 65 To 66: For j = 65 To 66: For k = 65 To 66
For l = 65 To 66: For m = 65 To 66: For i1 = 65 To 66
For i2 = 65 To 66: For i3 = 65 To 66: For i4 = 65 To 66
For i5 = 65 To 66: For i6 = 65 To 66: For n = 32 To 126
ActiveSheet.Unprotect Chr(i) & Chr(j) & Chr(k) & _
Chr(l) & Chr(m) & Chr(i1) & Chr(i2) & Chr(i3) & _
Chr(i4) & Chr(i5) & Chr(i6) & Chr(n)
If ActiveSheet.ProtectContents = False Then
MsgBox "One usable password is " & Chr(i) & Chr(j) & _
Chr(k) & Chr(l) & Chr(m) & Chr(i1) & Chr(i2) & _
Chr(i3) & Chr(i4) & Chr(i5) & Chr(i6) & Chr(n)
Exit Sub
End If
Next: Next: Next: Next: Next: Next
Next: Next: Next: Next: Next: Next
End Sub

            Step 5: After writing the code, run the written code by clicking the Run icon.  The file will be unprotected. These all are the methods that help you unprotect the sheet that is either protected using a password or without a password. 
            
            
            Next Topic
            Adding Graphics 
             
            
            ? prev 
            next ? 
             
          
        
        
       
       
      
        
        For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel:  Join Now 
       
       
      Feedback 
       
       Send your Feedback to [email protected] 
       
       
      Help Others, Please Share 
       
       
       
      
       
       
       
       
       
       Learn Latest Tutorials 
        
         
         
           
          Splunk 
           
         
         
           
          SPSS 
           
         
         
           
          Swagger 
           
         
         
           
          Transact-SQL 
           
         
         
           
          Tumblr 
           
         
         
           
          ReactJS 
           
         
         
           
          Regex 
           
         
         
           
          Reinforcement Learning 
           
         
         
           
          R Programming 
           
         
         
           
          RxJS 
           
         
         
           
          React Native 
           
         
         
           
          Python Design Patterns 
           
         
         
           
          Python Pillow 
           
         
         
           
          Python Turtle 
           
         
         
           
          Keras 
           
        
       
       
       
       Preparation 
        
         
         
           
          Aptitude 
           
         
         
           
          Reasoning 
           
         
         
           
          Verbal Ability 
           
         
         
           
          Interview Questions 
           
         
         
           
          Company Questions 
           
        
       
       
       
       Trending Technologies 
        
         
         
           
          Artificial Intelligence 
           
         
         
           
          AWS 
           
         
         
           
          Selenium 
           
         
         
           
          Cloud Computing 
           
         
         
           
          Hadoop 
           
         
         
           
          ReactJS 
           
         
         
           
          Data Science 
           
         
         
           
          Angular 7 
           
         
         
           
          Blockchain 
           
         
         
           
          Git 
           
         
         
           
          Machine Learning 
           
         
         
           
          DevOps 
           
        
       
       
       
       B.Tech / MCA 
        
         
         
           
          DBMS 
           
         
         
           
          Data Structures 
           
         
         
           
          DAA 
           
         
         
           
          Operating System 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Network 
           
         
         
           
          Compiler Design 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Organization 
           
         
         
           
          Discrete Mathematics 
           
         
         
           
          Ethical Hacking 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Graphics 
           
         
         
           
          Software Engineering 
           
         
         
           
          Web Technology 
           
         
         
           
          Cyber Security 
           
         
         
           
          Automata 
           
         
         
           
          C Programming 
           
         
         
           
          C++ 
           
         
         
           
          Java 
           
         
         
           
          .Net 
           
         
         
           
          Python 
           
         
         
           
          Programs 
           
         
         
           
          Control System 
           
         
         
           
          Data Mining 
           
         
         
           
          Data Warehouse 
           
        
       
      
     
     
      
      
       
     
     
     
      
       
      
     
      
     
     
     
      
     
      
     
      
     
     
     
      
      Javatpoint Services 
      JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on [email protected], to get more information about given services. 
       
       Website Designing
       Website Development
       Java Development
       PHP Development
       WordPress
       Graphic Designing
       Logo
       Digital Marketing
       On Page and Off Page SEO
       PPC
       Content Development
       Corporate Training
       Classroom and Online Training
       Data Entry
       
      
     
      
      Training For College Campus 
      JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at [email protected] Duration: 1 week to 2 week
     
     
     
      
      Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter  
       
       
       
       
       
       
     
     
      
       Learn Tutorials
       Learn Java
       Learn Data Structures
       Learn C Programming
       Learn C++ Tutorial
       Learn C# Tutorial
       Learn PHP Tutorial
       Learn HTML Tutorial
       Learn JavaScript Tutorial
       Learn jQuery Tutorial
       Learn Spring Tutorial
      
      
       Our Websites
       Javatpoint.com
       Hindi100.com
       Lyricsia.com
       Quoteperson.com
       Jobandplacement.com
      
      
       Our Services
       Website Development
       Android Development
       Website Designing
       Digital Marketing
       Summer Training
       Industrial Training
       College Campus Training
      
      
       Contact
       Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3
       Noida, UP, 201301, India
       Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935
       Contact Us 
       Subscribe Us 
       Privacy Policy
       Sitemap
       
       About Me
      
     
     
      © Copyright 2011-2021 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
      
      
      
     
   
   
  
   
     
 

