

 
  
  Install RVM Ubuntu - javatpoint
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
   
   
   
  
  
  ? SCROLL TO TOP 
  
    
    
      
      
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           
           
       
      
      
     
     
      
       
       
      
      
       
       
      
     
     
      
       
       Home 
       Linux 
       C 
       Java 
       Python 
       Shell Scripting 
       SQL 
       HTML 
       CSS 
       JavaScript 
       XML 
       Ajax 
       Android 
       Projects 
       Interview Q 
       
       
     
     
     
     
      
     
     
      
      Linux Tutorial 
      
      
      Linux Tutorial 
      What is Linux 
      Advantages of Linux 
      Linux History 
      Linux Features 
      Linux Bash 
      Unix vs Linux 
      Linux vs Windows 
      Linux Distributions 
      Linux Licensing 
      Set Environment Variable 
      Linux Set Command 
      Linux export Command 
      
      
      Linux Directories 
      
      
      Linux Directories 
      Linux Home Directory 
      Linux pwd 
      Linux cd 
      Linux Absolute Relative 
      Linux Path Completion 
      Linux ls 
      Linux mkdir 
      Linux rmdir 
      Rename Folder in Linux 
      
      
      Linux Commands 
      
      
      Linux commands List 
      Commands with Example 
      
      
      Linux Users 
      
      
      Linux Users 
      Linux Create User 
      Local su Commands 
      Linux User Management 
      User Password 
      Local Groups 
      Add User to Group 
      Linux id Command 
      
      
      Linux Files 
      
      
      Linux Files 
      Linux File System 
      Linux Create File 
      Linux file 
      Linux touch 
      Linux rm 
      Linux cp 
      Linux mv 
      Linux rename 
      Linux install Command 
      Linux read Command 
      
      
      Linux File Contents 
      
      
      Linux File Contents 
      Open File in Linux 
      Linux Edit File 
      Linux which command 
      Linux head 
      Linux tail 
      Linux cat 
      Linux tac 
      Linux more 
      Linux less 
      Linux strings command 
      Linux Print 
      
      
      Linux Process 
      
      
      Kill Process Linux 
      Linux terminating 
      1) Linux kill 
      2) Linux killall 
      3) Linux pkill 
      4) Linux xkill 
      Nohup Command 
      Linux at command 
      Linux exit command 
      
      
      Linux File Hierarchy 
      
      
      Linux File Hierarchy 
      Binary Directories 
      Configuration Directories 
      Data Directories 
      Memory Directories 
      Usr Directory 
      var Directory 
      Non-standard directories 
      
      
      Linux Filters 
      
      
      Linux Filters 
      Linux cat 
      Linux cut 
      Linux grep 
      Linux comm 
      Linux sed 
      Linux tee 
      Linux tr 
      Linux uniq 
      Linux wc 
      Linux od 
      Linux sort 
      Linux gzip 
      
      
      AWK Command 
      
      
      Linux AWK Command 
      
      
      Programming with Linux 
      
      
      Linux make command 
      GCC Linux 
      
      
      Linux I/O Redirection 
      
      
      Linux I/O Redirection 
      Linux Input Redirection 
      Linux Output Redirection 
      Linux Error Redirection 
      
      
      Linux Unix Tools 
      
      
      Linux Unix Tools 
      Linux Find 
      Linux Locate 
      Linux Date 
      Linux Cal 
      Linux Sleep 
      Linux Time 
      Linux zcat/zmore 
      Linux bzip2 / bunzip2 
      Linux bzcat / bzmore 
      Linux df 
      
      
      Linux Regex 
      
      
      Linux expr command 
      Linux RegEx 
      Linux Grep RegEx 
      Linux rename RegEx 
      Linux Sed RegEx 
      
      
      File Security 
      
      
      Linux File OwnerShip 
      Linux chgrp Command 
      Linux File Permission 
      Linux chmod Command 
      Linux chown command 
      Linux Advance Permission 
      Linux File Links 
      1) Linux Inodes 
      2) Linux Link Directories 
      3) Linux Hard links 
      4) Linux Soft links 
      5) Linux Remove link 
      
      
      Shell Commands 
      
      
      Linux Shell Commands 
      Linux Aliases 
      Linux Arguments 
      Linux Displaying Shell 
      Linux Control Operators 
      1) Semicolon 
      2) Ampersand 
      3) Dollar Question Mark 
      4) Double Ampersand 
      5) Double Vertical Bar 
      6) Combining && and || 
      7) Pound Sign 
      8) ESC 
      Linux File Globbing 
      Linux Shell Embedding 
      Linux Shell History 
      Linux history Command 
      Linux History Commands 
      Linux Histroy Size 
      Linux Bang Bang 
      
      
      Linux Networking 
      
      
      Linux Networking 
      1) Linux ifconfig 
      2) Linux ip 
      Linux telnet Command 
      SSH Linux 
      Linux mail Command 
      3) Linux traceroute 
      4) Linux tracepath 
      5) Linux ping 
      6) Linux netstat 
      7) Linux ss 
      8) Linux dig 
      9) Linux nslookup 
      10) Linux route 
      11) Linux host 
      12) Linux arp 
      13) Linux iwconfig 
      14) Linux hostname 
      15) Linux curl & wget 
      Linux Curl Command 
      16) Linux mtr 
      17) Linux whois 
      18) Linux ifplugstatus 
      
      
      Linux Misc 
      
      
      chkconfig command in Linux 
      How to change user password in Linux 
      Awk Command Usage 
      How to unzip files in Linux 
      Linux chroot Command 
      Linux Watch Command 
      Ubuntu Vs. Kali Linux 
      Clear cache Linux 
      7 QC Tools 
      Linux Process Memory Usage 
      Linux Tree Command 
      Wine Linux 
      Linux Commands to Check Disk Space 
      Manjaro Vs. Ubuntu 
      Architecture of Linux 
      Linux Lite 
      Linux Shell 
      Linux Meaning 
      Linux Foundation 
      Linux List Directories 
      Linux Shortcuts 
      Best Linux Distro 
      Who command in Linux 
      Linux Server 
      Debian vs Ubuntu 
      Types of Files in Unix 
      Linux Daemon 
      Linux Zip Command 
      CPU Utilization in Linux 
      Linux Terminal 
      Linux sudo 
      Basic Linux Commands 
      How to Check RAM in Linux 
      Linux List Users 
      Kill command 
      Tar command 
      Linux Find File 
      Echo command 
      Linux Change or set Password 
      SSH Command 
      What is sshd in Linux 
      Linux Screen Command 
      Linux Check Disk Space 
      Run command in Linux 
      Linux Memory Management 
      Linux Reboot Command 
      How to Inspect the Memory in Linux 
      Ubuntu GNOME 
      How to check open ports in Linux 
      Linux vs Ubuntu 
      Ping command in Linux 
      Linux Source Command 
      Linux Terminal Shortcuts 
      Find IP Address in Linux 
      Linux date Command 
      Linux hosts (file) 
      UNIX operating system 
      Linux dpkg command 
      Latest Kernel Linux Version 
      Linux Package Manager 
      Linux proc 
      Linux Task Manager 
      Linux Signals 
      Parrot OS vs. Kali Linux 
      Ubuntu Features 
      Linux ISO 
      Putty Command in Linux 
      Check OS Version in Linux 
      Linux Change Timezone 
      Linux Load Average 
      Linux Firewall 
      RPM Command in Linux 
      Cron Command 
      Linux Change Hostname 
      Ubuntu Disable Firewall 
      Latest Release of Ubuntu 
      Ubuntu Logo 
      Ubuntu MATE 
      Ubuntu Nvidia Drivers 
      Zoom Ubuntu 
      Install tar.gz Ubuntu 
      Ubuntu Screen Recorder 
      Ubuntu Server 
      Ubuntu Wallpaper 
      xVideoServiceThief Ubuntu Linux Free 
      Restart Apache Ubuntu 
      Ubuntu 20.04 LTS 
      Ubuntu Bootable USB 
      Ubuntu Desktop 
      Ubuntu Font 
      X videoservicethief Ubuntu 18 command 
      Ubuntu Games 
      Ubuntu Update Command 
      Ubuntu LTS 
      vscode for Ubuntu 
      Android Studio Ubuntu 
      AnyDesk Ubuntu 
      Ask Ubuntu 
      Boot Repair Ubuntu 
      Install AWS CLI Ubuntu 
      Install NVM Ubuntu 
      Install JDK Ubuntu 
      Install RVM Ubuntu 
      Install Skype Ubuntu 
      Ubuntu Budgie 
      
      
      Linux Editors 
      
      
      Linux Text Editors 
      
      
      Linux vi Editor 
      
      
      Vi Editor 
      1) switch 
      2) move 
      3) jump 
      4) delete 
      5) undo and repeat 
      6) cut, copy, paste 
      7) cut, copy, paste blocks 
      8) Start and end 
      9) Joining 
      10) word 
      11) Search 
      12) Replace all 
      13) Text Buffers 
      14) Abbreviations 
      
      
      Linux System Admin 
      
      
      Linux Admin Commands 
      Linux uptime 
      Linux service 
       Linux pmap 
       Linux wget command 
      Linux ftp or sftp 
      Linux free Command 
      Linux top 
      Linux last 
      Linux ps 
      Linux shutdown 
      Linux info 
      Linux env 
      Linux du 
      Linux init 
      Linux Nano Editor 
       Linux shred 
      Linux mount 
      Linux route 
      
      
      Linux Man Pages 
      
      
      Linux man 
      Linux man -a 
      Linux man -aw 
      Linux man -f 
      Linux man -k(apropos) 
      Linux man whereis 
      Whatis command in Linux 
      
      
      Error Codes 
      
      
      Linux Error Codes 
      
      
      Linux Interview 
      
      
      
      
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       
        
       
      
      
       
        
        
         
           
            
            next ? 
            ? prev 
            Install RVM Ubuntu RVM supports almost all Windows and Unix-like systems (with Bash or Cygwin on Windows on Ubuntu). The basic needs are curl, gpg2, bash, and overall the tools of the GNU version, but RVM is trying to auto-detect it and then install anything which is required. RVM is short for Ruby Version Manager. It is a platform of software for UNIX-like operating systems developed for managing more than one Ruby installation on similar devices. The entire environment of Ruby including the interpreter of Ruby, installed RubyGems, and documentation will be partitioned. Then, a developer can switch between the distinct versions for working on various projects with distinct requirements of the version. The standard interpreter of Ruby, in inclusion to MRI, RVM works as an installer for several other Ruby implementations. These include Rubinius, Maglev, IronRuby, MacRuby, mruby, jruby, Topaz, Ruby Enterprise Edition, and GoRuby (an interpreter that is optimized for code golf). RVM provides its support for the installation of MRI patched versions. RVM facilitates many features for Ruby gems organization from "gemsets", a group of gems that is isolated by a namespace and related installation of Ruby. Gemsets could be related to projects/directories from the use of the RVM exclusive file, i.e., .rvmrc. A substitution for using the file, i.e., .rvmrc (and the basic purpose however user-specific .jrubyrc) and its format is the application of the .ruby-gemset and .ruby-version files that are compatible with other RVMs such as chruby and RBenv. Using the file additionally requires trusting for preventing unauthorized code execution, while .ruby-version doesn't. Explanation of the Ruby installation using RVM We can install and configure Ruby Version Manager in three different ways which are listed and explained below: 1. Single-User Installations (suggested): For a separated install in the $HOME directory of a user, not for sudo or root. 2. Multi-User Installations (recommended for server administrators): For the installation usable by every user on the system. Also, it used to be known as the System-Wide install. Using this kind of installation without knowing can lead to a big risk of security. Note: Single-User Installation supersedes the Multi-User Installation. 3. Mixed-Mode Installations: For the installation usable by every user on the system with separated gemsets/rubies in the $HOME directory of a user. The instructions of the installation are the same as for the installations of Multi-User, the only difference is the environment of the user. RVM Basics RVM does not only make installing more than one Ruby runtimes/interpreters consistent and easy, it facilitates aspects such as gemsets that are not supported on almost all Ruby installs. RVM enables us to use different types of rubies in a way that would not mess with our existing install of Ruby and enabling us to concurrently execute more than one type of Ruby in isolated terminals. Community Maintained Project Ruby Version Manager is supported and maintained by the community via pull requests and issue trackers: 
            
            on all projects in the GitHub organization of RVM, 
            especially the issue tracker of the RVM project. 
            Production RVM enables us to deploy all projects with its completely dedicated and self-contained environment from the specific ruby version, every way down to the definite set of needed gems for running our application. Having a definite set of gems ignores the version issue conflicts among projects which can lead to difficult to trace bugs and hours of hair loss. Development Ruby Version Manager can decrease the complexity of several Ruby development angles from its API of the command-line. We can have self-contained and identical environments in our Development, Q/A, Staging, CI, and Production environments with RVM. No more hidden appreciations, if it implements for one of them, then it will implement in each of them. We can immediately and reliably push Modifications from a single environment to another with the named gemsets. RVM is for the applications of Ruby, not only for Rails. All the applications that are Ruby-based will get benefit from our use of RVM. Testing Ruby Version Manager enables us for easily testing both escape and upgrade paths very consistently and easily. We can execute the rake tasks, test suite, gem and benchmark commands against more than one version of Ruby at the same time with RVM. It means that we can easily ensure our applications implement in Ruby 1.8.X, MRI 1.9.1, REE, jruby, etc.... and quickly disclose any area where they don't. Management of Gem RVM contains an extremely formative Gem Management System which is known as Named Gem Sets. The "gemsets" of RVM make handling gems across more than one Ruby version a non-issue. RVM enables us to add a small file of text to the repository of our application, rather than checking in several gems which will inflate the size of a repository needlessly. Additionally, the gemset management of RVM applies a basic directory of cache, so only a single downloaded version of all gems resides over a disk instead of many copies. RVM supports to ensure that every Ruby aspect is completely included in user space, non-root, strongly encouraging safer use. Use of the rubies of RVM facilitates excellent system security and hence decreases risk and reduces overall downtime of the system. Additionally, since each process executing at the user level, a composed Ruby process can't compose the whole system. Getting started with RVM First of all, we must ensure that we install RVM. Configuration of Post Install When we log in either by a local shell or ssh account, RVM would be loaded like a function. We can use one of the below links in case of any issue as a reference to configure our terminal: 
            
            Screen Workflow 
            Zsh iTerm 
            XTerm 
            Ubuntu on Windows 
            LXTerminal 
            Konsole 
            Gnome Terminal 
            Best Practices of RVM The below is a set of best practices and tips that have been confirmed to be useful in making the process of development convenient while practicing RVM. List 
            
             Use files, i.e., rvmrc for all of our individual projects. An rvmrc (project-specific) makes it convenient for automating our common workflow. It does not only enable us to automatically switch many rubies when we work on our app, but it also makes it convenient to bootstrap environments automatically.  
             Check our rvmrc in source control. By checking the rvmrc file of the project in source control with our app, we are ensuring every user has a consistent environment if they are using our project and RVM, also by automating installs of gemset and the like. Also, we can make bootstrapping any project happen by coding in the project directory, given we have the export rvm_project_rvmrc=1 file in the $HOME/.rvmrc file. On top of this, we can also automatically enable our deployments setting up our application-specific platform even when we are applying passenger.  
             Apply per-project gemsets In this list, per-project gemsets are applied such that all applications have their different environment of a gem, supporting us to ignore problems that come about through conflicting versions. It involves applying something like "[email protected]" rather than "2.1.1" if choosing a Ruby (e.g., inside our rvmrc).  
             Setup with RVM if possible Developing using RVM is not only a good idea, if possible, it's also a nice idea to set up our application with RVM. It brings about the common benefits of an application-specific platform, but also makes it convenient for tracking down the bugs (version-specific) that appear in production later over in development. Primarily, it is since it ensures a consistent platform reasonably between the two. RVM can support us with it by the command, i.e., 'rvm upgrade' if it comes time for upgrading our Ruby even better.  
            Integrate RVM in tools of choice 
            Configuration of RVM RVM contains a configuration directory positioned in the $rvm_config_path file which for a common installation like a user to their directory, i.e., $HOME would be positioned in the ~/.rvm/config/ file. Defaults RVM includes a collection of the false that are recorded within the file which is mentioned below: 
           
            
$rvm_config_path/db

            The above file is substituted all time we upgrade RVM so don't edit it. Override default settings Also, RVM contains a directory for all users override positioned in the $rvm_path/user file. We need to place the accurate key=value in that folder's db file to override the default settings of RVM. 
           
            
$rvm_path/user

            Then, RVM will apply these settings rather than the defaults of RVM. Preparing our OS for installation There are 3 libraries we need to install before installing RVM: 
            
            GPG: It is an encryption program to verify the application source 
            Bash: It is a program for running the download script. 
            Curl: It is a program for downloading the script which will install RVM. 
            Most OSes will come using these pre-installed packages, so examine first before downloading. With the command terminal We will be referencing the command line or terminal during this article. That is the name of our application for most OSes that enables us to input commands that will be interpreted via the system. MacOS contains a terminal emulator, Windows contains a console, and Linux also contains a console. Verify the source of the installation Cryptographically, RVM signs all releases which needs validation on the downloads. We will configure the related keys RVM needs for verifying the signature by executing the below command in the command line: 
           
            
gpg --keyserver hkp://pool.sks-keyservers.net --recv-keys 409B6B179 6C275462A1703113804BB82D39DC0E3 

            
           
            
7D2BAF1CF37B13E2069D6956105BD0E739499BDB

            The above command will add the provided keys to our local key store and enable RVM installation verification and shows the following output when execute: This output displays that two important public keys are added to the local store. The release will be seen against these 2 keys for verifying the file which was come from the source if RVM is installed. Install RVM The installation process of RVM has slightly distinct steps for Ubuntu operating system as compared to the other operating systems. Windows operating system will only be supported when using the Subsystem of Windows for Linux and applies similar instructions as for Linux (except Ubuntu) and macOS. Install in Ubuntu Ubuntu operating system contains a dedicated package that is available for installing with the help of a package manager, i.e., apt-get. Installing the needed libraries for using Personal Package Archies We need to install the software-properties-common Ubuntu package to permit the inclusion of the Personal Package Archive (or PPA). We need to open our command line window and execute the following command: 
           
            
$ sudo apt-get update

               
           
            
$ sudo apt-get install -y software-properties-common

              The above commands will update the package manager, i.e., apt-get with the help of the current references, and then install the library, i.e., software-properties-common which permits the inclusion of the RVM PPA. We need to execute the following command for verifying if the old command was run successfully: 
           
            
dpkg-query -Wf'${Status}' software-properties-common

              The above command will query the package manager for verifying the provided package was correctly installed. Our command-line window will show the following message if this command was run successfully. 
           
            
install ok installed

            Include PPA for RVM Specifically, add the Personal Package Archive for RVM with the help of the following command. This command will add a repository including the RVM binary and permit installation: 
           
            
sudo apt-add-repository -y ppa:rael-gc/rvm

              The above command will add the repository to the internal list of Ubuntu. It holds for enabling the RVM installation. Installing RVM We need to update our installer and then install RVM by executing the following command in our terminal: 
           
            
$ sudo apt-get install -y rvm

              This command will install the application of RVM and provides the application the accurate permissions. The option -y will skip the confirmation request on install. Verify the installation is correct using RVM We will execute the following command in the terminal to start with RVM for the very first time. It just requires to be executed once after the installation process: 
           
            
source /etc/profile.d/rvm.sh

            The above command will run the script and permit us to execute RBM in the latest terminal in our terminal. We need to instruct RVM for returning the currently installed release to ensure that our RVM is correctly working by executing the following command in the terminal: 
           
            
rvm -version

              The above command will display the latest RVM version installed on our operating system. Installing Ruby We will use the "rvm install <version-number>" command for installing a Ruby Version with the help of RVM. We need to execute the following command in the terminal to install a specific version of Ruby: 
           
            
rvm install 2.6.3

              This command may compile the binaries of Ruby or apply precompiled binaries from the source depending on our operating system. It might take time to finish if compiling using source. We will execute the following command in the terminal for checking this installation is implemented correctly: 
           
            
rvm list

              It will list every installed Ruby version handled by RVM. 
            
            
            Next Topic
            Install Skype Ubuntu 
             
            
            ? prev 
            next ? 
             
          
        
        
       
       
      
        
        For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel:  Join Now 
       
       
      Feedback 
       
       Send your Feedback to [email protected] 
       
       
      Help Others, Please Share 
       
       
       
      
       
       
       
       
       
       Learn Latest Tutorials 
        
         
         
           
          Splunk 
           
         
         
           
          SPSS 
           
         
         
           
          Swagger 
           
         
         
           
          Transact-SQL 
           
         
         
           
          Tumblr 
           
         
         
           
          ReactJS 
           
         
         
           
          Regex 
           
         
         
           
          Reinforcement Learning 
           
         
         
           
          R Programming 
           
         
         
           
          RxJS 
           
         
         
           
          React Native 
           
         
         
           
          Python Design Patterns 
           
         
         
           
          Python Pillow 
           
         
         
           
          Python Turtle 
           
         
         
           
          Keras 
           
        
       
       
       
       Preparation 
        
         
         
           
          Aptitude 
           
         
         
           
          Reasoning 
           
         
         
           
          Verbal Ability 
           
         
         
           
          Interview Questions 
           
         
         
           
          Company Questions 
           
        
       
       
       
       Trending Technologies 
        
         
         
           
          Artificial Intelligence 
           
         
         
           
          AWS 
           
         
         
           
          Selenium 
           
         
         
           
          Cloud Computing 
           
         
         
           
          Hadoop 
           
         
         
           
          ReactJS 
           
         
         
           
          Data Science 
           
         
         
           
          Angular 7 
           
         
         
           
          Blockchain 
           
         
         
           
          Git 
           
         
         
           
          Machine Learning 
           
         
         
           
          DevOps 
           
        
       
       
       
       B.Tech / MCA 
        
         
         
           
          DBMS 
           
         
         
           
          Data Structures 
           
         
         
           
          DAA 
           
         
         
           
          Operating System 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Network 
           
         
         
           
          Compiler Design 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Organization 
           
         
         
           
          Discrete Mathematics 
           
         
         
           
          Ethical Hacking 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Graphics 
           
         
         
           
          Software Engineering 
           
         
         
           
          Web Technology 
           
         
         
           
          Cyber Security 
           
         
         
           
          Automata 
           
         
         
           
          C Programming 
           
         
         
           
          C++ 
           
         
         
           
          Java 
           
         
         
           
          .Net 
           
         
         
           
          Python 
           
         
         
           
          Programs 
           
         
         
           
          Control System 
           
         
         
           
          Data Mining 
           
         
         
           
          Data Warehouse 
           
        
       
      
     
     
      
      
       
     
     
     
      
       
      
     
      
     
     
     
      
     
      
     
      
     
     
     
      
      Javatpoint Services 
      JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on [email protected], to get more information about given services. 
       
       Website Designing
       Website Development
       Java Development
       PHP Development
       WordPress
       Graphic Designing
       Logo
       Digital Marketing
       On Page and Off Page SEO
       PPC
       Content Development
       Corporate Training
       Classroom and Online Training
       Data Entry
       
      
     
      
      Training For College Campus 
      JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at [email protected] Duration: 1 week to 2 week
     
     
     
      
      Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter  
       
       
       
       
       
       
     
     
      
       Learn Tutorials
       Learn Java
       Learn Data Structures
       Learn C Programming
       Learn C++ Tutorial
       Learn C# Tutorial
       Learn PHP Tutorial
       Learn HTML Tutorial
       Learn JavaScript Tutorial
       Learn jQuery Tutorial
       Learn Spring Tutorial
      
      
       Our Websites
       Javatpoint.com
       Hindi100.com
       Lyricsia.com
       Quoteperson.com
       Jobandplacement.com
      
      
       Our Services
       Website Development
       Android Development
       Website Designing
       Digital Marketing
       Summer Training
       Industrial Training
       College Campus Training
      
      
       Contact
       Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3
       Noida, UP, 201301, India
       Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935
       Contact Us 
       Subscribe Us 
       Privacy Policy
       Sitemap
       
       About Me
      
     
     
      © Copyright 2011-2021 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
      
      
      
     
   
   
  
   
     
 

