

 
  
  Install Mozilla Firefox In Kali Linux - javatpoint
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
   
   
   
  
  
  ? SCROLL TO TOP 
  
    
    
      
      
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           
           
       
      
      
     
     
      
       
       
      
      
       
       
      
     
     
      
       
       Home 
       Java 
       Kali Linux 
       Ethical Hacking 
       Linux 
       Shell Scripting 
       C 
       SQL 
       HTML 
       CSS 
       JavaScript 
       XML 
       Ajax 
       Python 
       Android 
       Quiz 
       Projects 
       Interview Q 
       Forum 
       
       
     
     
     
     
      
     
     
      
      Kali Linux Tutorial 
      
      
      Kali Linux Tutorial 
      Install Kali Linux 
      Configuring & Updating 
      Kali Linux Commands 
      
      
      Kali Linux Tools 
      
      
      Information Gathering Tools 
      Vulnerability Analysis Tools 
      Exploitation Tools 
      Wireless Attack Tools 
      Forensic Tools 
      Web Application Tools 
      Stress Testing Tools 
      Sniffing & Spoofing Tools 
      Password Attack Tools 
      Maintaining Access Tools 
      Reverse Engineering Tools 
      Hardware Hacking Tools 
      Reporting Tools 
      Hacking Wifi using Kali Linux 
      
      
      Misc. 
      
      
      Kali Linux Latest Version 
      Kali Linux net hunter 
      Making a Kali Bootable USB Drive 
      Kali Linux - Terminal 
      Kali Linux root password reset 
      Enable Root User in Kali Linux 
      How to hack a Facebook account using Kali Linux 
      How to Install XAMPP in Kali Linux 
      How to run a java program on Kail Linux 
      How to install XDM on Kali Linux 
      Features of Kali Linux 
      Use of Kali Linux 
      How to install VPNbook on Kali Linux 
      How to Check Kali Linux Version 
      Kali Linux System Requirements 
      Advantages and Disadvantages of Kali Linux 
      Kali Linux Tools List 
      How to install AnyDesk on Kali Linux 
      Best WiFi Adapters for Kali Linux 
      Install Mozilla Firefox In Kali Linux 
      Kali Linux vs Fedora 
      Sqlmap in Kali Linux 
      Skipfish in Kali Linux 
      Kali Linux Basic Commands 
      Kali Linux Shortcut Keys 
      How to take Screenshot in Kali Linux 
      How to Update Kali Linux 
      How to Change Time in Kali Linux 
      Kill Process 
      Social Engineering in Kali Linux 
      
      
      Interview Questions 
      
      
      Kali Linux Interview 
      
      
      
      
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       
        
       
      
      
       
        
        
         
           
            
            next ? 
            ? prev 
            Install Mozilla Firefox In Kali Linux This guide will show how to install the Mozilla Firefox Browser on your Kali Linux in minimal steps. Apart from this, the instructions which we are providing you here can also be used to install the Mozilla Firefox web browser in almost any other Linux based operating system. However, if you don't know enough about Mozilla Firefox, it would be great to have a little discussion about it. Otherwise, you can also go through the installation process. Introduction As we all know, Mozilla Firefox is a web browser, yet we cannot deny that it is much more than just a typical web browser. If we talk about Firefox in little depth, it is one of the products from the Mozilla community that handles users data with respect and are made to protect privacy wherever we go online. Another important thing about the Mozilla Firefox browser is that it is not for profit, which means it is freely available to all users. Also, if a user or developer wants to make any changes to it, they can also do so because Mozilla Firefox is open-source, so they can download its source code and make changes to it. How to install Mozilla Firefox on kali Linux? In this method, we will first download the Firefox executable file directly and move it to the Desktop or extract that file to the Desktop and install Mozilla Firefox. The reason we are recommending this method as there is no need to add new repositories and keys. Now let's see how to apply this method practically: 1. First of all, open your terminal and execute the following command before starting the installation of Firefox. This command will update the Kali system and help prevent unwanted errors while installing Firefox. We would also recommend to you use this command whenever you install some new programs on your system. 
           
            
sudo apt-get update

            Output  2. Now, open any pre-installed web browser and download the setup file of Mozilla Firefox for your Linux distribution. You can also use the following given link to download Mozilla Firefox: 
           
            
https://www.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/linux/

            Output  3. Once the downloading process is completed, we recommend you move or copy and paste the downloaded file to the Desktop on your system. The reason behind this it will ease the installation process and also help in avoiding unnecessary complications.  4. After moving the downloaded file to the Desktop next, you need to extract it. So to extract the downloaded file, select the setup.zip file and press the left button on the mouse, which will open up the menu. Now search for the "Extract Here" option and click on it and wait for some time until your downloaded file gets extracted successfully.  Alternate Method You can also use the command line or terminal to extract the setup.zip file, So if you want to extract the downloaded file or any other files, you can consider the following give instructions: a. Open a new terminal. b. Use the following given command to navigate where your file is located, as in our case; we have already moved our file to the Desktop. Command 
           
            
cd Desktop

            Output  c. To view all files located on the Desktop, you can use the following Command 
           
            
ls

            Output  d. Now Extract the downloaded file by using the "tar" command. Linux tar command is used to extract the zipped directory. Command 
           
            
tar xvjf firefox-92.0.1.tar.bz2

            Output  5. Once the file gets extracted, you need to change the current directory to the extracted folder using the following command. Command 
           
            
Cd  firefox-90.0.1.tar.bz2

            Output  Finally, to start Mozilla Firefox, just execute the following given command: Command 
           
            
Firefox

            Output  Once you execute the above command, it will open the Firefox web browser in no time. You can also use the alternate method to open the Firefox browser in which all you have to do is locate the "Firefox" icon in the extracted folder and double tap on it. 
            
            
            Next Topic
            Kali Linux vs Fedora 
             
            
            ? prev 
            next ? 
             
          
        
        
       
       
      
        
        For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel:  Join Now 
       
       
      Feedback 
       
       Send your Feedback to [email protected] 
       
       
      Help Others, Please Share 
       
       
       
      
       
       
       
       
       
       Learn Latest Tutorials 
        
         
         
           
          Splunk 
           
         
         
           
          SPSS 
           
         
         
           
          Swagger 
           
         
         
           
          Transact-SQL 
           
         
         
           
          Tumblr 
           
         
         
           
          ReactJS 
           
         
         
           
          Regex 
           
         
         
           
          Reinforcement Learning 
           
         
         
           
          R Programming 
           
         
         
           
          RxJS 
           
         
         
           
          React Native 
           
         
         
           
          Python Design Patterns 
           
         
         
           
          Python Pillow 
           
         
         
           
          Python Turtle 
           
         
         
           
          Keras 
           
        
       
       
       
       Preparation 
        
         
         
           
          Aptitude 
           
         
         
           
          Reasoning 
           
         
         
           
          Verbal Ability 
           
         
         
           
          Interview Questions 
           
         
         
           
          Company Questions 
           
        
       
       
       
       Trending Technologies 
        
         
         
           
          Artificial Intelligence 
           
         
         
           
          AWS 
           
         
         
           
          Selenium 
           
         
         
           
          Cloud Computing 
           
         
         
           
          Hadoop 
           
         
         
           
          ReactJS 
           
         
         
           
          Data Science 
           
         
         
           
          Angular 7 
           
         
         
           
          Blockchain 
           
         
         
           
          Git 
           
         
         
           
          Machine Learning 
           
         
         
           
          DevOps 
           
        
       
       
       
       B.Tech / MCA 
        
         
         
           
          DBMS 
           
         
         
           
          Data Structures 
           
         
         
           
          DAA 
           
         
         
           
          Operating System 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Network 
           
         
         
           
          Compiler Design 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Organization 
           
         
         
           
          Discrete Mathematics 
           
         
         
           
          Ethical Hacking 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Graphics 
           
         
         
           
          Software Engineering 
           
         
         
           
          Web Technology 
           
         
         
           
          Cyber Security 
           
         
         
           
          Automata 
           
         
         
           
          C Programming 
           
         
         
           
          C++ 
           
         
         
           
          Java 
           
         
         
           
          .Net 
           
         
         
           
          Python 
           
         
         
           
          Programs 
           
         
         
           
          Control System 
           
         
         
           
          Data Mining 
           
         
         
           
          Data Warehouse 
           
        
       
      
     
     
      
      
       
     
     
     
      
       
      
     
      
     
     
     
      
     
      
     
      
     
     
     
      
      Javatpoint Services 
      JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on [email protected], to get more information about given services. 
       
       Website Designing
       Website Development
       Java Development
       PHP Development
       WordPress
       Graphic Designing
       Logo
       Digital Marketing
       On Page and Off Page SEO
       PPC
       Content Development
       Corporate Training
       Classroom and Online Training
       Data Entry
       
      
     
      
      Training For College Campus 
      JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at [email protected] Duration: 1 week to 2 week
     
     
     
      
      Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter  
       
       
       
       
       
       
     
     
      
       Learn Tutorials
       Learn Java
       Learn Data Structures
       Learn C Programming
       Learn C++ Tutorial
       Learn C# Tutorial
       Learn PHP Tutorial
       Learn HTML Tutorial
       Learn JavaScript Tutorial
       Learn jQuery Tutorial
       Learn Spring Tutorial
      
      
       Our Websites
       Javatpoint.com
       Hindi100.com
       Lyricsia.com
       Quoteperson.com
       Jobandplacement.com
      
      
       Our Services
       Website Development
       Android Development
       Website Designing
       Digital Marketing
       Summer Training
       Industrial Training
       College Campus Training
      
      
       Contact
       Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3
       Noida, UP, 201301, India
       Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935
       Contact Us 
       Subscribe Us 
       Privacy Policy
       Sitemap
       
       About Me
      
     
     
      © Copyright 2011-2021 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
      
      
      
     
   
   
  
   
     
 

