

 
  
  Intensive and Extensive Property - Javatpoint
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
   
   
   
  
  
  ? SCROLL TO TOP 
  
    
    
      
      
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           
           
       
      
      
     
     
      
       
       
      
      
       
       
      
     
     
      
       
       Home 
       Chemistry 
       Biology 
       Maths 
       GK 
       Reasoning 
       Aptitude 
       Verbal Ability 
       Java 
       JSP 
       Android 
       C# 
       HTML 
       CSS 
       jQuery 
       Programs 
       Projects 
       Interview Q 
       
       
     
     
     
     
      
     
     
      
      Chemistry 
      
      
      What is chemistry 
      What is Matter 
      What is Atom 
      Atomic Number & Atomic Mass 
      Structure of Atom 
      Electronic Configuration 
      What is valency 
      Electronic Configuration 
      What is valency 
      Molecule 
      Compound 
      Chemical Bond 
      Chemical Formula 
      Mole Concept 
      Classification of Elements 
      Periodic Trends in the Periodic table 
      Isotopes and Isobars 
      Evaporation 
      Laws of Chemical Combination 
      Stoichiometry 
      Limiting Reagent 
      Solution 
      Types of Solutions 
      Solubility 
      Concentration of Solutions 
      Colloidal Solutions 
      Types of Colloids 
      Preparation of Colloidal Solutions 
      Purification of Colloids 
      Chemical Reaction 
      Types of Chemical Reactions 
      Oxidation and Reduction 
      Oxidizing Agent 
      Oxidation Number 
      Chemical Equation 
      Acids 
      Bases 
      Salts 
      What is pH 
      Preparation of Sodium Hydroxide 
      Baking Soda 
      Bleaching Powder 
      Plaster of Paris 
      Washing Soda 
      Metals and Non-Metals 
      Reactivity Series 
      Metallurgy 
      Corrosion and its Prevention 
      Carbon Compounds 
      Types of Solids 
      Intensive and Extensive Property 
      First Law of Thermodynamics 
      State and Path function in Thermodynamics 
      Second Law of Thermodynamics 
      What is Equilibrium 
      Law of Mass Action 
      Organic Compounds 
      
      
      
      
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       
        
       
      
      
       
        
        
         
           
            
            next ? 
            ? prev 
            Intensive and Extensive Property The properties of matter can be divided into physical and chemical properties. The physical properties are further of two types that include intensive and extensive properties. These terms were first used by Richard C. Tolman in 1917. To measure the physical properties, we don't need to change the chemical identity of a substance. Intensive Property Intensive property refers to a physical property that does not change with the change in the amount of matter, which means it does not depend on the size or mass of the substance, e.g., the boiling point of water is 100 degrees centigrade and it remains the same for 100 ml or 500 ml water. So, the boiling point is an intensive property. Extensive Property On the other hand, an extensive property is a physical property of matter that depends on the size or mass of a substance. We can say that it depends on the amount of substance present, such as mass, size and volume. However, the ratio of two extensive properties is an intensive property such as the ratio of mass and volume (mass/ volume) is density (intensive property). The term extensive is derived from the Latin word extensivus. Some other common examples of intensive properties are hardness, density, boiling point, pressure, color, refractive index, concentration, and more. As per IUPAC, the definition of extensive property is that it is a property whose magnitude is additive for subsystems. It means it changes (increases or decreases) as the substance grow large or small. So, it is directly proportional to the size or mass of the substance. The definition of intensive property as per IUPAC; it is a property whose magnitude is independent of the size of the system. It is the local physical property that does not change with a change in the amount or size of a substance. A simple example of understanding intensive property is the temperature of a system in thermal equilibrium where the temperature of all parts of the system remains the same. Similarly, if a homogenous system is divided into two equal parts, the density remains the same but the volume and mass are divided in half. How to identify Intensive or Extensive property The easy way to identify an intensive or extensive property is that take two identical samples of a substance and combine them. If the value of physical property gets doubled, it is an extensive property, e.g. 3m long + 3m long = 6m long or 5 gm + 5 gm = 10 gm mass; so the length and mass of a substance are extensive properties. On the contrary, if the property remains unchanged by changing the size, it is an intensive property, e.g., the density of 50 gm iron with be same as the density of 100 gm iron, and so density is an extensive property as it remains the same even if the mass of iron is doubled. Note: When an extensive property is divided by volume or mass, it becomes an intensive property. For example; 
           
            Weight / volume = specific weight (intensive property) 
Volume / mass = specific volume (intensive property) 
Mass / volume = specific mass or density (intensive property) 

            Difference between Intensive and Extensive property 
            
            
              
              Intensive Property 
              Extensive Property 
              
              
              It does not depend on the amount of the substance. 
              It depends on the amount or size of the substance. 
              
              
              All pieces of substance have the same intensive property, e.g. density. 
              Different pieces of a substance have different extensive properties, e.g. 5 cm, 7 cm, etc. 
              
              
              It can be used to identify the identity of a substance. 
              It cannot be used to find out the identity of a substance. 
              
              
              Its value remains the same. 
              Its value changes with a change in size or mass. 
              
              
              Examples; density, temperature, boiling point, luster, odor, etc. 
              Examples; length, mass, volume, weight, etc. 
              
            
            
            
            
            Next Topic
            First Law of Thermodynamics 
             
            
            ? prev 
            next ? 
             
          
        
        
       
       
      
        
        For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel:  Join Now 
       
       
      Feedback 
       
       Send your Feedback to [email protected] 
       
       
      Help Others, Please Share 
       
       
       
      
       
       
       
       
       
       Learn Latest Tutorials 
        
         
         
           
          Splunk 
           
         
         
           
          SPSS 
           
         
         
           
          Swagger 
           
         
         
           
          Transact-SQL 
           
         
         
           
          Tumblr 
           
         
         
           
          ReactJS 
           
         
         
           
          Regex 
           
         
         
           
          Reinforcement Learning 
           
         
         
           
          R Programming 
           
         
         
           
          RxJS 
           
         
         
           
          React Native 
           
         
         
           
          Python Design Patterns 
           
         
         
           
          Python Pillow 
           
         
         
           
          Python Turtle 
           
         
         
           
          Keras 
           
        
       
       
       
       Preparation 
        
         
         
           
          Aptitude 
           
         
         
           
          Reasoning 
           
         
         
           
          Verbal Ability 
           
         
         
           
          Interview Questions 
           
         
         
           
          Company Questions 
           
        
       
       
       
       Trending Technologies 
        
         
         
           
          Artificial Intelligence 
           
         
         
           
          AWS 
           
         
         
           
          Selenium 
           
         
         
           
          Cloud Computing 
           
         
         
           
          Hadoop 
           
         
         
           
          ReactJS 
           
         
         
           
          Data Science 
           
         
         
           
          Angular 7 
           
         
         
           
          Blockchain 
           
         
         
           
          Git 
           
         
         
           
          Machine Learning 
           
         
         
           
          DevOps 
           
        
       
       
       
       B.Tech / MCA 
        
         
         
           
          DBMS 
           
         
         
           
          Data Structures 
           
         
         
           
          DAA 
           
         
         
           
          Operating System 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Network 
           
         
         
           
          Compiler Design 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Organization 
           
         
         
           
          Discrete Mathematics 
           
         
         
           
          Ethical Hacking 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Graphics 
           
         
         
           
          Software Engineering 
           
         
         
           
          Web Technology 
           
         
         
           
          Cyber Security 
           
         
         
           
          Automata 
           
         
         
           
          C Programming 
           
         
         
           
          C++ 
           
         
         
           
          Java 
           
         
         
           
          .Net 
           
         
         
           
          Python 
           
         
         
           
          Programs 
           
         
         
           
          Control System 
           
         
         
           
          Data Mining 
           
         
         
           
          Data Warehouse 
           
        
       
      
     
     
      
      
       
     
     
     
      
       
      
     
      
     
     
     
      
     
      
     
      
     
     
     
      
      Javatpoint Services 
      JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on [email protected], to get more information about given services. 
       
       Website Designing
       Website Development
       Java Development
       PHP Development
       WordPress
       Graphic Designing
       Logo
       Digital Marketing
       On Page and Off Page SEO
       PPC
       Content Development
       Corporate Training
       Classroom and Online Training
       Data Entry
       
      
     
      
      Training For College Campus 
      JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at [email protected] Duration: 1 week to 2 week
     
     
     
      
      Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter  
       
       
       
       
       
       
     
     
      
       Learn Tutorials
       Learn Java
       Learn Data Structures
       Learn C Programming
       Learn C++ Tutorial
       Learn C# Tutorial
       Learn PHP Tutorial
       Learn HTML Tutorial
       Learn JavaScript Tutorial
       Learn jQuery Tutorial
       Learn Spring Tutorial
      
      
       Our Websites
       Javatpoint.com
       Hindi100.com
       Lyricsia.com
       Quoteperson.com
       Jobandplacement.com
      
      
       Our Services
       Website Development
       Android Development
       Website Designing
       Digital Marketing
       Summer Training
       Industrial Training
       College Campus Training
      
      
       Contact
       Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3
       Noida, UP, 201301, India
       Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935
       Contact Us 
       Subscribe Us 
       Privacy Policy
       Sitemap
       
       About Me
      
     
     
      © Copyright 2011-2021 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
      
      
      
     
   
   
  
   
     
 

