

 
  
  List of Schemes by Narendra Modi Government - Javatpoint
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
   
   
   
  
  
  ? SCROLL TO TOP 
  
    
    
      
      
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           
           
       
      
      
     
     
      
       
       
      
      
       
       
      
     
     
      
       
       Home 
       List Of 
       Chemistry 
       Biology 
       Maths 
       GK 
       Reasoning 
       Aptitude 
       Verbal Ability 
       Java 
       JSP 
       Android 
       C# 
       HTML 
       CSS 
       jQuery 
       Programs 
       Interview Q 
       
       
     
     
     
     
      
     
     
      
      List Of 
      
      
      List Of 
      Billionaires 
      Mughal Emperors 
      European Countries 
      Apps Banned in India 
      US Presidents 
      Presidents of India 
      States in India 
      Inorganic Compounds 
      Continents 
      Marvel Movies in order 
      List of Fruits 
      List of Government Banks in India 
      Chinese app in India 
      Countries in the World 
      Union Territories in India 
      List of Colors 
      List of Finance Minister in India 
      List of Indian Mobile 
      List of Indian Snacks 
      List of Fundamental Rights 
      List of Cabinet Minister of India 
      List of IIM in India 
      List of Asian Countries 
      List of Banks in India 
      List of Outdoor Games 
      List of courses after 12th Commerce 
      List of iPhone 
      List of Animals 
      List of China Products in India 
      List of US states 
      List of Pirates of the Caribbean Movies 
      List of Chinese Products in India 
      List of diploma courses after 10th 
      List of African Countries 
      List of DD Channels 
      List of Banks Integrated with PFMS 
      List of Indoor Games 
      List of Cities in India 
      List Of Cities In USA 
      List of the Indian Festivals 
      List of Schemes by Narendra Modi Government 
      List of High Courts in India 
      List of Chief Justices of India 
      List of Popular English Songs 
      List Of Cities In Canada 
      List of Banks with Zero Balance Account 
      List Of Birds 
      List of Input Devices 
      List of Kitchen Items 
      List Of Makeup Items 
      List of Pet Animals 
      List Of Professions 
      List Of Properties Of Magnetic Lines Of Forces 
      List of Engineering Colleges in Bangalore 
      List of IIT in India 
      List Of Insurance Companies In India 
      List of Flowers 
      List Of Common Characteristics Of Living Things 
      List of Monuments In India 
      
      
      
      
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       
        
       
      
      
       
        
        
         
           
            
            next ? 
            ? prev 
            List of Schemes by Narendra Modi Government What is the meaning of scheme? Generally, the meaning of a scheme is a plan or format involving many human beings, which is formulated through the authorities' way. The Special Ministries of the Government of India have published various government' programmes called schemes or Yojana for the betterment of citizens of India. What is the motive of government schemes in India? The government creates government schemes in India to address the social and economic well-being of the country's population. This scheme is made available by the ministries of India's major authorities, and it is a federal government scheme. These schemes are crucial in resolving many of the socio-financial problems that plague Indian society; therefore, understanding them is a prerequisite for any concerned citizen. They assist in uplifting the susceptible sections of society by offering simple and necessary facilities to them. List of Modi Government Schemes: Many welfare initiatives have been launched by the Modi government, including Beti Bachao-Beti Padhao, Swachh Bharat Mission, PM Mudra Yojana, Atal Pension Yojana, Smart City Scheme, Make in India, and so on. 
            
            
              
              S.no. 
              Starting Date of Schemes 
              List of Schemes Launched by Narendra Modi 
              
              
              1. 
              28 August 2014 
              Jan Dhan Yojana 
              
              
              2. 
              28 August 2014 
              Skill India Mission 
              
              
              3. 
              28 September 2014 
              Make In India 
              
              
              4. 
              2 October 2014 
              Swachh Bharat Mission 
              
              
              5. 
              11 October 2014 
              Sansad Adarsh, Gram Yojana 
              
              
              6. 
              16 October 2014 
              Shramew Jayate Yojana 
              
              
              7. 
              22 January 2015 
              Beti Bachao Beti Padhao 
              
              
              8. 
              21 January 2015 
              Hridaya plan 
              
              
              9. 
              8 April 2015 
              PM Mudra Yojana 
              
              
              10. 
              1 May 2015 
              Ujala Yojana 
              
              
              11. 
              9 May 2015 
              Atal Pension Yojana 
              
              
              12. 
              9 May 2015 
              Prime Minister Jyoti Bima Yojana 
              
              
              13. 
              9 May 2015 
              Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana 
              
              
              14. 
              25 June 2015 
              Smart City Scheme 
              
              
              15. 
              25 June 2015 
              AMRUT Plan 
              
              
              16. 
              2 July 2015 
              Digital India Mission 
              
              
              17. 
              5 November 2015 
              Gold Monetization Scheme 
              
              
              18. 
              5 November 2015 
              Sovereign Gold Bond Scheme 
              
              
              19. 
              20th November 2015 
              UDAY 
              
              
              20. 
              16 January 2015 
              Start-up-India 
              
              
              21. 
              4 March 2016 
              Setu Bhartam Yojana 
              
              
              22. 
              5 April 2016 
              Stand Up India 
              
              
              23. 
              14-24 April 2016 
              Gramoday Se Bharat Uday 
              
              
              24. 
              1 May 2016 
              Prime Minister Ujjwala Plan 
              
              
              25. 
              7 July 2016 
              Namami Gange Yojana 
              
              
              26. 
              13 December 2016 
              Pravasi Kaushal Yojana 
              
              
              27. 
              1 November 2016 
              Saur Sujala Yojana 
              
              
              28. 
              18 April 2017 
              Pradhan Mantri Kisan Sampada Yojana (PKVY) 
              
              
              29. 
              7 October 2017 
              Pradhan Mantri Gramin Digital Sakaharata Abhiyan (PMGDISHA) 
              
              
              30. 
              9 June 2016 
              Pradhan Mantri Surakshit Matritva Abhiyan (PMSMA) 
              
              
              31. 
              22 November 2017 
              Pradhan Mantri Mahila Shakti Kendras (PMMSK) 
              
              
              32. 
              1 February 2018 
              Revitalising of Infrastructure and System in Education - RISE Scheme 
              
              
              33. 
              9 August 2017 
              Shadi Shagun Scheme 
              
              
              34. 
              29 November 2017 
              Pradhan Mantri Power loom Weavers Credit 
              
              
              35. 
              7 December 2017 
              Inter Caste Marriage Scheme for Dalits 
              
            
            Explanation of major schemes 1. Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana (PMJDY) It is a scheme launched by the Prime Minister of India on August 28, 2014. The main purpose is to offer economic inclusion and get entry to financial services to all households inside the country. The Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana (PMJDY) is a countrywide attempt to equip all Indian families with complete economic inclusion. Anyone over the age of ten who does no longer have already have a financial institution account can do so underneath the PMJDY without depositing any money. Financial offerings like banking/savings and deposit accounts, remittances, credit and debit playing cards, insurance, and pensions have been offered at the lowest price in this Scheme. The Scheme was primarily designed for persons living below the poverty line, but it is advantageous to anyone without a bank account. The Jan Dhan Yojana has been a huge success, with nearly 21 crore accounts opened in just one and half years. 12.87 Crore accounts have been opened in rural areas, whereas 8.13 crore accounts have been opened in urban areas. Despite having no minimum amount, these accounts have a total balance of 33074.89 crore rupees, with 28.88 per cent of accounts having no balance. 2. Make in India It was launched on September 25, 2014. Its main goal is to encourage multinational and domestic companies to manufacture products in India, creating jobs and developing skills in 25 industries. The major purpose of the programme is to focus on job creation and skill development in 25 various economic areas. The project also strives to achieve high-quality standards while minimizing environmental effects, and India hopes to attract finance and technology investment through this effort. 3. Swachh Bharat Abhiyan It was introduced on October 2, 2014 by launching its website. The primary purpose is to bring Mahatma Gandhi's vision of a clean and hygienic India to fruition. The Swachh Bharat Mission is implemented in urban and rural regions by the Ministries of Urban Development (M/o UD) and Drinking Water and Sanitation (M/o DWS). 4. Digital India Its website was launched on July 1, 2015. Its main goal is to enhance online infrastructure and boom Internet connectivity to supply government services to residents electronically. India's flagship initiative, Digital India, aims to show a digitally empowered society and economy. The Digital India programme aspires to transform India into a knowledge economy and a digitally enabled society. 5. Skill India This scheme of modi government was launched on 15 July 2015. Its main goal is to provide training to over 40 crore individuals in various skills by 2022. The Skill India Program's major purpose is to provide opportunity, space, and scope to develop Indian youth's skills. The Scheme also aimed to find new industries for skill development and expand on those already put under skill development for several years. 6. National Heritage City Development and Augmentation Yojana (HRIDAY) This scheme was launched on January 21, 2015. Its main goal is to conserve each Heritage City's heritage identity by holistically integrating urban planning, economic growth, and heritage conservation. The scheme was supposed to run for 27 months (finishing in March 2017) in 12 cities: Ajmer, Amaravati, Amritsar, Badami, Dwarka, Gaya, Kanchipuram, Mathura, Puri, Varanasi, Velankanni, and Warangal. In a mission mode, the scheme was implemented. 7. Smart City Mission It was launched on 25 June 2015 with a goal to develop 100 cities across the country, making them more sustainable and friendly to citizens. The Smart City Mission of the NDA administration aims to build smart cities with basic infrastructure and deliver high-quality life using smart solutions. These smart cities are anticipated to have reliable water and power supplies, sanitation and solid waste management, efficient urban mobility and public transit, robust IT connectivity, e-governance and citizen participation, and inhabitants' safety. 8. Gold Monetisation Schemes It was launched on 04 November 2015. Its main goal is to lessen dependency on gold imports gradually. The Scheme aims to entice tens of thousands of ounces of gold from homes into the financial sector. People can deposit gold in banks and earn income based on the gold's worth under the Scheme. 9. Stand up India Loan Scheme It was launched on April 5, 2016. The main goal is to encourage women and people from the SC and ST groups to start businesses. At least one borrower from a Scheduled Caste (SC) or Scheduled Tribe (ST) is eligible for bank loans ranging from Rs. 10 lakhs to Rs. 1 crore per bank branch under the Stand-Up India Scheme. This loan amount will assist in establishing a greenfield business, which could be in the manufacturing, services, or trading sectors. In non-individual enterprises, at least 51% of the shareholding and controlling interest should be held by an SC/ST or a woman entrepreneur. 10. PM SVANidhi (PM Street Vendors Atmanirbhar Nidhi) Scheme It was launched on 18 July 2020 with a goal to supply rehdi / patri valas with short-term loans of up to Rs. 10,000. It is a Central Sector Scheme to assist street sellers in obtaining an inexpensive working capital loan to resume their livelihood operations following the lockdown. The Pradhan Mantri Street Merchants Atmanirbhar Nidhi is a special micro-credit programme that provides street vendors with inexpensive financing. The government has created this Scheme because the COVID-19 lockdown has severely harmed the livelihoods of these daily wage earners. The programme will provide street vendors with a working capital loan to help them get back on their feet. Street sellers from peri-urban and rural areas might benefit from this programme. 11. Ayushman Bharat Abhiyan (Ayushman Bharat Abhay) It was launched on June 11, 2019, the main goal is to raise money for cooperative healthcare facilities. Ayushman Sahakari Scheme 2020 was to be launched by the National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC). This programme would subsidize cooperative healthcare facilities, which are critical in India's current health crisis. This plan is based on Kerala's successful cooperative hospital model, which proved beneficial in the COVID-19 (Coronavirus) pandemic. 12. Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana It was launched on 01 May 2016. The major purpose is to provide free LPG connections to women from 5 million BPL homes. According to projections, the Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana will help around 1.50 million BPL families in 2016-17. In the following two years, the Scheme was to cover an additional 3.5 million low-income families. For each LPG connection, the Scheme gives BPL households financial support of Rs 1600. Millions of women from the poorest households will benefit from the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas' first-ever welfare scheme. 13. Surakshit Matritva Aashwasan (SUMAN) It is a new scheme launched on October 10, 2019. The main goal is to provide free healthcare to newborns, pregnant women, and mothers for the first six months following delivery. The Surakshit Matritva Aashwasan (SUMAN) Scheme was established to lower the Infant Mortality Rate (IMR) and Maternal Mortality Rate (MMR) (MMR). The government will provide: 
            
            Free healthcare to pregnant women. 
            For mothers for up to six months after birth. 
            For all sick newborns under this Scheme. 
            There would be no cost associated with identifying and treating issues during and after pregnancy. In addition, the federal government will provide free transportation from home to the medical centre. At least four antenatal check-ups under the SUMAN scheme, including one during the first trimester, at least it will include one under the PM Surakshit Matritva Abhiyan, Iron Folic Acid supplementation, Tetanus-Diphtheria injection, and other components of a comprehensive ANC package, as well as six home-based newborn care visits. 14. Gramin Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (Renamed from Indira Awas Yojana) It was launched in 2015. PMAY Gramin is a rural component of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's flagship PM Awas Yojana - Houses for All (PMAY-HFA), which aims to provide housing for India's rural poor by 2022. By FY 2022, the national government wants to build 4 crore dwellings for impoverished people in rural areas. Beneficiaries of the rural dwellings would be selected based on information from the 2011 Socio-Economic Caste Census. In plain areas, a construction allowance of Rs. One hundred twenty thousand would be supplied, while in hilly areas, a building allowance of one hundred thirty thousand will be provided. 
            
            
            Next Topic
            List of High Courts in India 
             
            
            ? prev 
            next ? 
             
          
        
        
       
       
      
        
        For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel:  Join Now 
       
       
      Feedback 
       
       Send your Feedback to [email protected] 
       
       
      Help Others, Please Share 
       
       
       
      
       
       
       
       
       
       Learn Latest Tutorials 
        
         
         
           
          Splunk 
           
         
         
           
          SPSS 
           
         
         
           
          Swagger 
           
         
         
           
          Transact-SQL 
           
         
         
           
          Tumblr 
           
         
         
           
          ReactJS 
           
         
         
           
          Regex 
           
         
         
           
          Reinforcement Learning 
           
         
         
           
          R Programming 
           
         
         
           
          RxJS 
           
         
         
           
          React Native 
           
         
         
           
          Python Design Patterns 
           
         
         
           
          Python Pillow 
           
         
         
           
          Python Turtle 
           
         
         
           
          Keras 
           
        
       
       
       
       Preparation 
        
         
         
           
          Aptitude 
           
         
         
           
          Reasoning 
           
         
         
           
          Verbal Ability 
           
         
         
           
          Interview Questions 
           
         
         
           
          Company Questions 
           
        
       
       
       
       Trending Technologies 
        
         
         
           
          Artificial Intelligence 
           
         
         
           
          AWS 
           
         
         
           
          Selenium 
           
         
         
           
          Cloud Computing 
           
         
         
           
          Hadoop 
           
         
         
           
          ReactJS 
           
         
         
           
          Data Science 
           
         
         
           
          Angular 7 
           
         
         
           
          Blockchain 
           
         
         
           
          Git 
           
         
         
           
          Machine Learning 
           
         
         
           
          DevOps 
           
        
       
       
       
       B.Tech / MCA 
        
         
         
           
          DBMS 
           
         
         
           
          Data Structures 
           
         
         
           
          DAA 
           
         
         
           
          Operating System 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Network 
           
         
         
           
          Compiler Design 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Organization 
           
         
         
           
          Discrete Mathematics 
           
         
         
           
          Ethical Hacking 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Graphics 
           
         
         
           
          Software Engineering 
           
         
         
           
          Web Technology 
           
         
         
           
          Cyber Security 
           
         
         
           
          Automata 
           
         
         
           
          C Programming 
           
         
         
           
          C++ 
           
         
         
           
          Java 
           
         
         
           
          .Net 
           
         
         
           
          Python 
           
         
         
           
          Programs 
           
         
         
           
          Control System 
           
         
         
           
          Data Mining 
           
         
         
           
          Data Warehouse 
           
        
       
      
     
     
      
      
       
     
     
     
      
       
      
     
      
     
     
     
      
     
      
     
      
     
     
     
      
      Javatpoint Services 
      JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on [email protected], to get more information about given services. 
       
       Website Designing
       Website Development
       Java Development
       PHP Development
       WordPress
       Graphic Designing
       Logo
       Digital Marketing
       On Page and Off Page SEO
       PPC
       Content Development
       Corporate Training
       Classroom and Online Training
       Data Entry
       
      
     
      
      Training For College Campus 
      JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at [email protected] Duration: 1 week to 2 week
     
     
     
      
      Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter  
       
       
       
       
       
       
     
     
      
       Learn Tutorials
       Learn Java
       Learn Data Structures
       Learn C Programming
       Learn C++ Tutorial
       Learn C# Tutorial
       Learn PHP Tutorial
       Learn HTML Tutorial
       Learn JavaScript Tutorial
       Learn jQuery Tutorial
       Learn Spring Tutorial
      
      
       Our Websites
       Javatpoint.com
       Hindi100.com
       Lyricsia.com
       Quoteperson.com
       Jobandplacement.com
      
      
       Our Services
       Website Development
       Android Development
       Website Designing
       Digital Marketing
       Summer Training
       Industrial Training
       College Campus Training
      
      
       Contact
       Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3
       Noida, UP, 201301, India
       Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935
       Contact Us 
       Subscribe Us 
       Privacy Policy
       Sitemap
       
       About Me
      
     
     
      © Copyright 2011-2021 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
      
      
      
     
   
   
  
   
     
 

