

 
  
  List of Kitchen Items - Javatpoint
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
   
   
   
  
  
  ? SCROLL TO TOP 
  
    
    
      
      
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           
           
       
      
      
     
     
      
       
       
      
      
       
       
      
     
     
      
       
       Home 
       List Of 
       Chemistry 
       Biology 
       Maths 
       GK 
       Reasoning 
       Aptitude 
       Verbal Ability 
       Java 
       JSP 
       Android 
       C# 
       HTML 
       CSS 
       jQuery 
       Programs 
       Interview Q 
       
       
     
     
     
     
      
     
     
      
      List Of 
      
      
      List Of 
      Billionaires 
      Mughal Emperors 
      European Countries 
      Apps Banned in India 
      US Presidents 
      Presidents of India 
      States in India 
      Inorganic Compounds 
      Continents 
      Marvel Movies in order 
      List of Fruits 
      List of Government Banks in India 
      Chinese app in India 
      Countries in the World 
      Union Territories in India 
      List of Colors 
      List of Finance Minister in India 
      List of Indian Mobile 
      List of Indian Snacks 
      List of Fundamental Rights 
      List of Cabinet Minister of India 
      List of IIM in India 
      List of Asian Countries 
      List of Banks in India 
      List of Outdoor Games 
      List of courses after 12th Commerce 
      List of iPhone 
      List of Animals 
      List of China Products in India 
      List of US states 
      List of Pirates of the Caribbean Movies 
      List of Chinese Products in India 
      List of diploma courses after 10th 
      List of African Countries 
      List of DD Channels 
      List of Banks Integrated with PFMS 
      List of Indoor Games 
      List of Cities in India 
      List Of Cities In USA 
      List of the Indian Festivals 
      List of Schemes by Narendra Modi Government 
      List of High Courts in India 
      List of Chief Justices of India 
      List of Popular English Songs 
      List Of Cities In Canada 
      List of Banks with Zero Balance Account 
      List Of Birds 
      List of Input Devices 
      List of Kitchen Items 
      List Of Makeup Items 
      List of Pet Animals 
      List Of Professions 
      List Of Properties Of Magnetic Lines Of Forces 
      List of Engineering Colleges in Bangalore 
      List of IIT in India 
      List Of Insurance Companies In India 
      List of Flowers 
      List Of Common Characteristics Of Living Things 
      List of Monuments In India 
      
      
      
      
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       
        
       
      
      
       
        
        
         
           
            
            next ? 
            ? prev 
            List of Kitchen Items The kitchen is the place where we cook the food and store the eatable things. There are many items in the kitchen used for preparing the food and storing it. Let's see the list of majorly used items in the kitchen.  1. Gas Stove  It is a very important item in the kitchen. For cooking the food along with utensils, a gas stove is needed. The parts of the gas stove are burners, control panels, valves, and pilot lights. The body of a gas stove is made up of glass or stainless steel. According to the need, the users can buy a gas stove with 2 burners, 3 burners, or 4 burners. A gas cylinder is required for a gas stove. Some brands of gas stoves are Prestige, Butterfly, Whirlpool, Life Long, Elica, Pigeon, Sunflame, etc. 2. Microwave Oven  Microwaves can be seen in every kitchen nowadays. It has various modes like the micro mode, convection mode, and grill mode. To clean the microwave, clean by steam is functionality is provided. It is used to cook vegetables, non-veg, rice, idli, baking biscuits, cakes, and other bakery items, etc. The microwave is also used to cook popcorn, pizza, beverage, rice, barbeque, cookies, etc. The user has to set the time and temperature for cooking food in it. Micro-safe utensils like borosil bowls, Tupperware bowls, grill, etc. are needed for cooking the food in a microwave. The size of the microwave is 20 liters, 22 liters, 25 liters, 30 liters, etc. Some top brands of microwave are LG, IFB, Samsung, Bajaj, etc. 3. Pan  Pan is used in the kitchens every day. It is used to bake bread. Various types of pans are non-stick pan, iron cast pan, stainless steel pan, ceramic pan, etc. Some brands of the pan are Pigeon, Cello, Impex, Prestige, and Bergner. Types of pans as per their uses are the flat pan, grill pan, frying pan, etc. The flat pan is mostly used for making dosa and roti. The grill pan is used for cooking seafood and vegetable. The frying pan is used for cooking the egg omelet and pancakes. 4. Pressure Cooker  It is used to cook rice and dal. This is the most commonly used utensil in the kitchen. The sizes of the cooker are 4 liters, 6 liters, 8 liters, 10 liters, etc. The cooker is made up of stainless steel or aluminum. Vent tube, cooker body, handle, safety valve, lid, file screw, gasket ring, and steam vent are the parts of the pressure cooker. 5. Spoon  Spoon is used to eating the food. The types of spoons are dinner spoon, dessert spoon, sugar spoon, salad spoon, soup spoon, etc. The dinner spoon is used to eat rice and vegetables. The dessert spoon is used for eating cakes and ice cream. A soup spoon is used for drinking the soup, and a salad spoon is used for eating salad. 6. Fork  The spoon which has fork-like tines is called a fork. The types of the fork are dessert fork, dinner fork, salad fork, fish fork, fruit fork, etc. The dinner fork is used for eating the noodles and the dessert fork is used for eating the cakes and pudding. The fruit fork has two tines and it is used for eating the food. 7. Knife  The knife is used for cutting fruits, vegetables, meat, etc. Different types of knives are a utility knife, butter knife, fish knife, dessert knife, bread knife, etc. To cut the vegetable utility knife is the best. A dessert knife is used for cutting the cake. A fish knife is used for removing the fish skin. For cutting the butter and spreading butter, the butter knife is used. 8. Chopping board  It is used to cut the vegetables, fruits, and anything that you want to chop while cooking the food. These boards are made up of wooden, silicone, or plastic. There are many shapes of chopping boards like rectangle, circle, fish shape, apple shape, square, etc. The professionals use these boards according to color. For example, red color board for cutting the raw meat, the blue color board are used for cutting the raw fish, the white color board is used for cutting the dairy products, the yellow color board is used for cutting cooked meats, the brown color board is used for cutting vegetables, the green color board is used for cutting salad and fruits, and purple color boards are used for cutting and chopping nuts. 9. Glass  Glass is used to drink water. The sizes of glasses are 414 ml to 473 ml. The water glass is made up of steel, glass, or copper. There are many types of glasses which include parfait glass, rocks glass, chalices glass, shot glass, and juice glass. The parfait glasses are used to serve ice cream and milkshakes, rocks glasses are used to serve whisky and spirits, chalices glasses are used to serve the wine, shot glasses are very small in size, and they are to serve the liqueurs, juice glass is used to serve the juices, and champagne flute glasses are used to serve the champagne and cocktails. 10. Juicer  It is used to extract juice from the fruit. The juicers are electric juicers or hand juicers. There are many types of a juicer like a reamer juicer, steam juicer, and electric juicer. Reamer juicer is small in size and is used to extract lemon juice; this is a hand juicer. The steam juicer is used to extract juices of berries, apples, tomatoes, plums, and grapes. The electric juicer is used to extract the juice of herbs, fruits, and vegetables. Triturating juicers are the type of press juicer; they extract the juices of fruits by crushing them. 11. Container  It is the most important item in the kitchen and is used to store the food. The container is made up of glass, plastic, or steel. Users can use containers of different sizes as per their requirements. The small size containers are used to store the sugar, tea, and coffee. Medium size containers are used to store the lentil, fattened rice, beans, semolina, peanut, etc. The large size containers are used to store wheat flour, jawar flour, rice, bajra flour, etc. The oil container is used to store the oil and the spices containers are used to store the black cumin, cardamom, chili flex, bay leaf, turmeric, clove, fenugreek, cinnamon, etc. 12. Steamer It is used to cook steamed food, i.e., without using the oil. That's why this food is healthy for humans. It is used to make fish, chicken, prawns, spring rolls, and vegetables. The steamer comes with plates that are used to make idli and dhokla. 13. Peeler  It is used to peel the vegetables. The types of peeler are Julienne, Spiralizer, Lancashire, Swivel, and Serrated Peeler. 14. Wok  It is one type of cooking pot. It is used to cook the curry and stir-frying. It is made up of carbon steel, cast iron, or aluminum. The wok comes with a handle and without a handle also. The sizes of the wok are small, medium, and large. 15. Spatula  It is flat in shape and is used to mix and lift the food. The spatula is made up of wooden, silicone, or stainless steel. The sizes of spatula are small, medium, and large. The size of a large spatula is 25 cm, the size of the medium spatula is 20 cm, and the size of a small spatula is 15 cm. The types of spatula are flipper spatula, fosters spatula, scrapers spatula, etc. A flipper spatula is used to turn or flip the food. Foster's spatula is used to plain the surface of the cake while decorating it. The skimmer is used while separating the food from the liquid. 16. Cup and Mug  Cups and mugs are used to serve hot drinks. The cups are made up of glass, metal, plastic, ceramic, or polypropylene. There are many types of cups and mugs like coffee cups, teacups, travel mugs, and mustache cups. The coffee cup is used to serve the coffee. A teacup is used to serve the tea. Travel mugs have a lid and the liquid inside the mug doesn't leak out; it keeps the liquid hot. The mug is used to serve hot chocolate and milk. People use the mugs or cups as per their age also. For example, the children use attractive mugs and different shapes mugs like cartoon-shaped mugs and car-shaped mugs. Teenager uses 3D mugs, photo printed mugs, and good thoughts printed mugs. The adults use mostly plain color mugs. 17. Bowl  It is used to serve the food. The bowls are made of glass, fiber, or stainless steel. The sizes of bowls are small, medium, and large. The small size bowl has 118 mm to 120 mm diameter, the medium-size bowl has 121 mm to 123 mm diameter, and the large size bowl has 124 mm to 126 mm diameter. There are many types of the bowls like soup bowls, dessert bowls, finger bowls, salad bowls, etc. A soup bowl is used to serve the soup and liquid food. Dessert bowls are used to serve parfaits, custard, ice cream, pudding, and mousse. Candy bowls are used to serve candies like gems, popin, jelly, etc. Chips bowls are used to serve the chips, popcorn, chidva, etc. Salad bowls are used to serve green salad, bound salads, rice, pasta salads, etc. Finger bowls are used after dinner to keep the finger in the water. 18. Plate  The plate is used for serving food at lunchtime, dinner time, and snack time. The sizes of plates are small, medium, and large. Sizes of small plates are 6 inches or 7 inches, sizes of medium plates are 8 inches to 10 inches, and sizes of large plates are 11 inches or 12 inches. The plates are made up of non-breakable glass, stainless steel, or fiber.  There are many types of plates like a dinner plate, salad plate, and appetizer plate. The dinner plate is used to serve lentils, vegetables, curry, rice, and bread. The salad plates are used to serve lettuce, tomatoes, cabbage, broccoli, black tomato, carrots, celery, green beans, cucumber, etc. The bread-and-butter plate is used to serve the bread and butter. The appetizer plate is used to serve the fruits. 19. Racks and trolley  It is used to organize kitchen utensils. The types of racks are dish rack, glass rack, spoon rack, bottle rack, and fruit rack. The plate rack is used to keep the plates, bottle rack is used to keep the bottles, glass rack is used to keep the glasses, egg rack is used to keep the eggs, the spoon rack is used to keep the spoons, and a fruit rack is used to keep the fruits and vegetables. In the modern kitchen, instead of racks, trollies are used. The trolley increases the beauty of the kitchen. The trolley includes a plate compartment, bottle compartment, container compartment, and cup compartment. The plate compartment is used to organize the plates, the bottle compartment is used to organize the bottles, the container compartment is used to organize all sizes of containers, and the cup compartment is used to organize the cups and mugs. 20. Molds  Mold is used to give shape to the food. There are different types of molds like chocolate mold, cupcake mold, bread mold, and cake mold. The chocolate molds are used to make chocolate and candies; they come in different shapes like animals shape, flowers shapes, alphabets shapes, etc. The cake molds are made up of silicon material or aluminum. 21. Bitter It is used to stir and beat the food. The bitter is used to beat the whipped cream, eggs, and cream. There are two types of bitter: hand bitter and electronic bitter. Hand bitter is used to beat lightweight food, and electronic bitter is used to beat heavy food. Some top brands of bitter are Kent, Philips, Boss, Prestige, Orpat, etc. 22. Mixer  It is a very useful item in the kitchen for grinding food. It is used to make powder of spices, powder of sugar, making chutneys, etc. The parts of the mixer are stopper, handle, cutting blades, grinding cup, cord & plug, etc. The grinding cup is provided with a mixer to grind the food. Bajaj, Bosch, Prestige, Havells, and Butterfly are some of the top brands of the mixer. 23. Refrigerator  It is used to keep the food cold. In it, there are compartments to store the thing. The freezer is available in the refrigerator to produce the ice. The refrigerator keeps the vegetable and fruit fresh. The types of refrigerators are mini-fridge, top freezer refrigerator, bottom freezer refrigerator, side-by-side refrigerator, etc. 24. Bottle  It is a type of container, mostly used to store and carry water. Bottles are used to store liquid food like vinegar, wine, soya sauce, oil and chili sauce, etc. The bottles are made up of glass, plastic, steel, or copper. To keep the water at the desired temperature, a hot and cool bottle is used. 
            
            
            Next Topic
            List Of Makeup Items 
             
            
            ? prev 
            next ? 
             
          
        
        
       
       
      
        
        For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel:  Join Now 
       
       
      Feedback 
       
       Send your Feedback to [email protected] 
       
       
      Help Others, Please Share 
       
       
       
      
       
       
       
       
       
       Learn Latest Tutorials 
        
         
         
           
          Splunk 
           
         
         
           
          SPSS 
           
         
         
           
          Swagger 
           
         
         
           
          Transact-SQL 
           
         
         
           
          Tumblr 
           
         
         
           
          ReactJS 
           
         
         
           
          Regex 
           
         
         
           
          Reinforcement Learning 
           
         
         
           
          R Programming 
           
         
         
           
          RxJS 
           
         
         
           
          React Native 
           
         
         
           
          Python Design Patterns 
           
         
         
           
          Python Pillow 
           
         
         
           
          Python Turtle 
           
         
         
           
          Keras 
           
        
       
       
       
       Preparation 
        
         
         
           
          Aptitude 
           
         
         
           
          Reasoning 
           
         
         
           
          Verbal Ability 
           
         
         
           
          Interview Questions 
           
         
         
           
          Company Questions 
           
        
       
       
       
       Trending Technologies 
        
         
         
           
          Artificial Intelligence 
           
         
         
           
          AWS 
           
         
         
           
          Selenium 
           
         
         
           
          Cloud Computing 
           
         
         
           
          Hadoop 
           
         
         
           
          ReactJS 
           
         
         
           
          Data Science 
           
         
         
           
          Angular 7 
           
         
         
           
          Blockchain 
           
         
         
           
          Git 
           
         
         
           
          Machine Learning 
           
         
         
           
          DevOps 
           
        
       
       
       
       B.Tech / MCA 
        
         
         
           
          DBMS 
           
         
         
           
          Data Structures 
           
         
         
           
          DAA 
           
         
         
           
          Operating System 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Network 
           
         
         
           
          Compiler Design 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Organization 
           
         
         
           
          Discrete Mathematics 
           
         
         
           
          Ethical Hacking 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Graphics 
           
         
         
           
          Software Engineering 
           
         
         
           
          Web Technology 
           
         
         
           
          Cyber Security 
           
         
         
           
          Automata 
           
         
         
           
          C Programming 
           
         
         
           
          C++ 
           
         
         
           
          Java 
           
         
         
           
          .Net 
           
         
         
           
          Python 
           
         
         
           
          Programs 
           
         
         
           
          Control System 
           
         
         
           
          Data Mining 
           
         
         
           
          Data Warehouse 
           
        
       
      
     
     
      
      
       
     
     
     
      
       
      
     
      
     
     
     
      
     
      
     
      
     
     
     
      
      Javatpoint Services 
      JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on [email protected], to get more information about given services. 
       
       Website Designing
       Website Development
       Java Development
       PHP Development
       WordPress
       Graphic Designing
       Logo
       Digital Marketing
       On Page and Off Page SEO
       PPC
       Content Development
       Corporate Training
       Classroom and Online Training
       Data Entry
       
      
     
      
      Training For College Campus 
      JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at [email protected] Duration: 1 week to 2 week
     
     
     
      
      Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter  
       
       
       
       
       
       
     
     
      
       Learn Tutorials
       Learn Java
       Learn Data Structures
       Learn C Programming
       Learn C++ Tutorial
       Learn C# Tutorial
       Learn PHP Tutorial
       Learn HTML Tutorial
       Learn JavaScript Tutorial
       Learn jQuery Tutorial
       Learn Spring Tutorial
      
      
       Our Websites
       Javatpoint.com
       Hindi100.com
       Lyricsia.com
       Quoteperson.com
       Jobandplacement.com
      
      
       Our Services
       Website Development
       Android Development
       Website Designing
       Digital Marketing
       Summer Training
       Industrial Training
       College Campus Training
      
      
       Contact
       Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3
       Noida, UP, 201301, India
       Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935
       Contact Us 
       Subscribe Us 
       Privacy Policy
       Sitemap
       
       About Me
      
     
     
      © Copyright 2011-2021 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
      
      
      
     
   
   
  
   
     
 

