

 
  
  List of High Courts in India - Javatpoint
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
   
   
   
  
  
  ? SCROLL TO TOP 
  
    
    
      
      
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           
           
       
      
      
     
     
      
       
       
      
      
       
       
      
     
     
      
       
       Home 
       List Of 
       Chemistry 
       Biology 
       Maths 
       GK 
       Reasoning 
       Aptitude 
       Verbal Ability 
       Java 
       JSP 
       Android 
       C# 
       HTML 
       CSS 
       jQuery 
       Programs 
       Interview Q 
       
       
     
     
     
     
      
     
     
      
      List Of 
      
      
      List Of 
      Billionaires 
      Mughal Emperors 
      European Countries 
      Apps Banned in India 
      US Presidents 
      Presidents of India 
      States in India 
      Inorganic Compounds 
      Continents 
      Marvel Movies in order 
      List of Fruits 
      List of Government Banks in India 
      Chinese app in India 
      Countries in the World 
      Union Territories in India 
      List of Colors 
      List of Finance Minister in India 
      List of Indian Mobile 
      List of Indian Snacks 
      List of Fundamental Rights 
      List of Cabinet Minister of India 
      List of IIM in India 
      List of Asian Countries 
      List of Banks in India 
      List of Outdoor Games 
      List of courses after 12th Commerce 
      List of iPhone 
      List of Animals 
      List of China Products in India 
      List of US states 
      List of Pirates of the Caribbean Movies 
      List of Chinese Products in India 
      List of diploma courses after 10th 
      List of African Countries 
      List of DD Channels 
      List of Banks Integrated with PFMS 
      List of Indoor Games 
      List of Cities in India 
      List Of Cities In USA 
      List of the Indian Festivals 
      List of Schemes by Narendra Modi Government 
      List of High Courts in India 
      List of Chief Justices of India 
      List of Popular English Songs 
      List Of Cities In Canada 
      List of Banks with Zero Balance Account 
      List Of Birds 
      List of Input Devices 
      List of Kitchen Items 
      List Of Makeup Items 
      List of Pet Animals 
      List Of Professions 
      List Of Properties Of Magnetic Lines Of Forces 
      List of Engineering Colleges in Bangalore 
      List of IIT in India 
      List Of Insurance Companies In India 
      List of Flowers 
      List Of Common Characteristics Of Living Things 
      List of Monuments In India 
      
      
      
      
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       
        
       
      
      
       
        
        
         
           
            
            next ? 
            ? prev 
            List of High Courts in India India is the largest democracy in the world and just like any other democracy Indian democracy is also divided into three parts Legislature, executive, and judiciary. This three-part is very important for any democracy. In the Indian judiciary, there are courts at three levels. One at the district level other at the state level, and last one at the national level. The court at the district level is known as the district court, and the court responsible for the state level is known as the High court and at last, the court that handles the work at the national level is known as the Supreme Court. In this article, we are going to discuss briefly high courts in India. Appointment of Judges of the high court The process of Appointment of Judges of the high court is very simple. The President of India decides who will be judges of the high court and also he is the only person who decides who will be the Chief Justice of the High Court but The President of India have the right to take advice from the governor of the state and chief justice of India about these appointments. Qualifications of Judges of the high court 
            
            You must be an Indian citizen, 
            you must be under the age of 62, 
            At least ten years of experience as a High Court Advocate, 
            Or must be a judge at district court at least 10 years 
            Oath of Judges of the high court If you are appointed as the judge of the high court then you have to take oath in front of the governor of the state, sometimes it is also possible that the governor can send some other person in place of himself. Salary of judges of the high court Chief justice of high courts gets 2,50,000 rupees per month and 34,000 per month as Sumptuary Allowance. On the other hand judges of high courts get 2,25,000 rupees per month and 27,000 per month as Sumptuary Allowance. The total strength of judges in the high court The Constitution of India does not specify how many judges will be in a High Court. The President of India decides how many judges will be in a High Court but there is a chef justice in every high court. High Court Judges Tenure It is not written anywhere that what will be the tenure of the High Court judge. 
            
            If a person is a judge of the High Court, then he can remain a judge till the age of 62 years. 
            He can also give his resignation to the president of India. 
            At the suggestion of the Parliament, the President has the power to remove high court judges from his office. 
            When any judge of the high court is appointed as a Supreme Court judge or transferred to another High court then he has the power to vacate his office. 
            Power of the high court 
            
            High courts have the right to issue writs like mandamus, habeas corpus, certiorari, prohibition, and quo-warrento. This is written in Article 226. 
            High courts are superior to Subordinate Courts that's why high courts have Control over Subordinate Courts. 
            High courts have the right to hear both criminal and civil matters. 
            The High court has also the power to hear the matter of contempt of court. 
            High courts have the power to listen to matters related to the collection of revenue 
            List of high courts in India Today in India there is a total of 25 high courts. Some states have their own high court but some states and union territories have a common high court. Before 1956, in our constitution, there is written that every state has their own high court but the seventh Amendment Act which is come in 1956 gave the right to parliament to create a high court which is common for two or more than two states and also for a union territory. 1) The Calcutta High Court Even after the name of Calcutta changed to Kolkata in 2001. The name of the high court is the same as the previous name "Calcutta High Court". The jurisdiction of this high court is on one state and at one union territory and bench at Port Blair. This high court was constituted under the Indian High Courts Act of 1861. Also, it is the oldest court in India. Territorial Jurisdiction = West Bengal and Andaman and Nicobar Islands Year of establishment = 01-07-1862 Seat= Kolkata 2) The Bombay High Court This high court was also constituted under the Indian High Courts Act of 1861. In 1995 Bombay's name was changed to Mumbai but the name of the high court was not changed. The Jurisdiction of this high court is on two states and two union territories. And benches at Panaji, Aurangabad and Nagpur. Territorial Jurisdiction = Maharashtra, Goa, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, and Daman and Diu. Year of establishment = 1862 Seat = Mumbai 3) The Madras High Court Under High Courts Act, 1861, the Madras High Court was established with Territorial Jurisdiction on one state and one union territory. Like Calcutta and Bombay High Court name of madras high court is also not changed. Territorial Jurisdiction = Tamil Nadu and Puducherry Year of establishment = 1862 Seat = Chennai 4) The Sikkim High Court This high court was the result of the 36th Amendment in the Indian constitution having Territorial Jurisdiction only on one state. Territorial Jurisdiction = Sikkim Year of establishment = 1975 Seat = Gangtok 5) The Rajasthan High Court This high court was constituted under the Rajasthan High Court Ordinance of 1949. It has jurisdiction over the state of Rajasthan and its bench is at Jaipur. Territorial Jurisdiction = Rajasthan Year of establishment = 1949 Seat = Jodhpur 6) Haryana High Court and Punjab high court This high court is a common high court for two states and one union territory. It has Jurisdiction over the state of Haryana, the state of Punjab, and the union territory of Chandigarh. Before the Punjab and Haryana, the High Court name of this high court was Punjab High Court and the name of this high court was changed in 1966. This high court was constituted under the Punjab High Court Ordinance of 1947. Territorial Jurisdiction = Haryana, Punjab, and Chandigarh Year of establishment = 1875 Seat = Chandigarh 7) The Patna High Court This high court is for the state of Bihar and its territorial Jurisdiction is on Bihar state only. Territorial Jurisdiction = Bihar Year of establishment = 1916 Seat = Patna 8) The Orissa High Court This high court was constituted under the Orissa High Court Ordinance of 1948. Even the name of Orissa is changed to Odisha but the name of the high court is not changed. Territorial Jurisdiction = Odisha Year of establishment = 1948 Seat = Cuttack 9) The Madhya Pradesh High Court This high court was also constituted under the Government of India Act of 1935 and bench at Indore and Gwalior. Firstly On January 2, 1936, it was founded as the Nagpur High Court but in 1956 the name of the high court was changed toMadhya Pradesh High Court. Territorial Jurisdiction = Madhya Pradesh Year of establishment = 1956 Seat = Jabalpur 10) The Guwahati High Court This high court was constituted under the Government of India Act of 1935. The jurisdiction of this high court is on four states. Before the Guwahati High Court, the name of this court was Assam High Court and the name of this court was changed in 1971. Territorial Jurisdiction = 4 states (Assam, Nagaland, Mizoram, and Arunachal Pradesh) Year of establishment = 1948 Seat = Guwahati 11) The Delhi High Court In India, there are eight union territories out of eight only Delhi has its high court despite being a union territory. This high court was constituted under the Delhi High Court Act of 1966. Its jurisdiction is on Delhi only. Territorial Jurisdiction = Delhi Year of establishment = 1966 Seat = Delhi 12) The Telangana High Court This high court was also constituted under the Andhra Pradesh Reorganisation Act of 2014. Like the Andhra Pradesh High Court, this high court is also the newest high court in India having Jurisdiction in the state of Telangana. Territorial Jurisdiction = Telangana Year of establishment =1 January 2019 Seat = Hyderabad 13) The Tripura High Court Territorial Jurisdiction = Tripura Year of establishment = 23 March 2013 Seat = Agartala 14) The Allahabad High Court This high court was constituted under the Indian High Courts Act of 1861 and its Jurisdiction is on Uttar Pradesh and its bench is at Lucknow. Territorial Jurisdiction = Uttar Pradesh Year of establishment =1866 Seat = Allahabad 15) The Kerala High Court This is the common high court for one state and one union territory. It was constituted under the States Reorganisation Act of 1956. Territorial Jurisdiction = Kerala and Lakshadweep Year of establishment = 1958 Seat = Ernakulam 16) The Karnataka High Court The Karnataka High Court was constituted under the Mysore High Court Act of 1884 and jurisdiction is on the state of Karnataka and the bench is at Dharwad. The early name of Karnataka High Court was Mysore High Court but in 1973 the name of this high court was changed. Territorial Jurisdiction = Karnataka Year of establishment= 1884 Seat = Bengaluru 17) The Jammu and Kashmir High Court This high court is also a common high court for one state and one union territory. Territorial Jurisdiction = Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh Year of establishment =1928 Seat = Srinagar and Jammu 18) The Himachal Pradesh High Court This high court was constituted under the State of Himachal Pradesh Act of 1970. Its Jurisdiction is only on one state; Himachal Pradesh. Territorial Jurisdiction = Himachal Pradesh Year of establishment = 1971 Seat= Simla 19) The Gujarat High Court The Gujarat High Court is one of India's High Courts. This high court was constituted under the Bombay Reorganisation Act of 1960. Territorial Jurisdiction = Gujarat Year of establishment = 1960 Seat = Ahmedabad 20) The Chhattisgarh High Court The Chhattisgarh High Court is one of India's most recent High Courts. This high court was constituted under the Madhya Pradesh Reorganisation Act of 2000. The jurisdiction of this high court is on one state. Territorial Jurisdiction = Chhattisgarh Year of establishment = 2000 Seat = Bilaspur 21) The Manipur High Court Manipur high court and Meghalaya High Court both are constituted under the North-Eastern Areas and other Related Laws Act of 2012. The jurisdiction of this high court is on one state. Territorial Jurisdiction = Manipur Year of establishment = 2013 Seat = Imphal 22) The Meghalaya High Court Territorial Jurisdiction = Meghalaya Year of establishment = 2013 Seat= Shilong 23) The Jharkhand High Court The Jharkhand High Court is one of India's most recent High Courts. This high court was constituted under the Bihar Reorganisation Act of 2000. The jurisdiction of this high court is also on one state. Territorial Jurisdiction = Jharkhand Year of establishment =2000 Seat= Ranchi 24) The Uttarakhand High Court Like Jharkhand high court this high court is also one of India's most recent High Courts. This high court was constituted under the Uttar Pradesh Reorganisation Act of 2000. Territorial Jurisdiction = Uttarakhand Year of establishment =2000 Seat = Nainital 25) The Andhra Pradesh High Court This high court was constituted under the Andhra Pradesh Reorganisation Act of 2014 and the jurisdiction of this high court is on one state. Territorial Jurisdiction = Andhra Pradesh Year of establishment = 1 January 2019 Seat = Amravati 
            
            
            Next Topic
            List of Chief Justices of India 
             
            
            ? prev 
            next ? 
             
          
        
        
       
       
      
        
        For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel:  Join Now 
       
       
      Feedback 
       
       Send your Feedback to [email protected] 
       
       
      Help Others, Please Share 
       
       
       
      
       
       
       
       
       
       Learn Latest Tutorials 
        
         
         
           
          Splunk 
           
         
         
           
          SPSS 
           
         
         
           
          Swagger 
           
         
         
           
          Transact-SQL 
           
         
         
           
          Tumblr 
           
         
         
           
          ReactJS 
           
         
         
           
          Regex 
           
         
         
           
          Reinforcement Learning 
           
         
         
           
          R Programming 
           
         
         
           
          RxJS 
           
         
         
           
          React Native 
           
         
         
           
          Python Design Patterns 
           
         
         
           
          Python Pillow 
           
         
         
           
          Python Turtle 
           
         
         
           
          Keras 
           
        
       
       
       
       Preparation 
        
         
         
           
          Aptitude 
           
         
         
           
          Reasoning 
           
         
         
           
          Verbal Ability 
           
         
         
           
          Interview Questions 
           
         
         
           
          Company Questions 
           
        
       
       
       
       Trending Technologies 
        
         
         
           
          Artificial Intelligence 
           
         
         
           
          AWS 
           
         
         
           
          Selenium 
           
         
         
           
          Cloud Computing 
           
         
         
           
          Hadoop 
           
         
         
           
          ReactJS 
           
         
         
           
          Data Science 
           
         
         
           
          Angular 7 
           
         
         
           
          Blockchain 
           
         
         
           
          Git 
           
         
         
           
          Machine Learning 
           
         
         
           
          DevOps 
           
        
       
       
       
       B.Tech / MCA 
        
         
         
           
          DBMS 
           
         
         
           
          Data Structures 
           
         
         
           
          DAA 
           
         
         
           
          Operating System 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Network 
           
         
         
           
          Compiler Design 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Organization 
           
         
         
           
          Discrete Mathematics 
           
         
         
           
          Ethical Hacking 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Graphics 
           
         
         
           
          Software Engineering 
           
         
         
           
          Web Technology 
           
         
         
           
          Cyber Security 
           
         
         
           
          Automata 
           
         
         
           
          C Programming 
           
         
         
           
          C++ 
           
         
         
           
          Java 
           
         
         
           
          .Net 
           
         
         
           
          Python 
           
         
         
           
          Programs 
           
         
         
           
          Control System 
           
         
         
           
          Data Mining 
           
         
         
           
          Data Warehouse 
           
        
       
      
     
     
      
      
       
     
     
     
      
       
      
     
      
     
     
     
      
     
      
     
      
     
     
     
      
      Javatpoint Services 
      JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on [email protected], to get more information about given services. 
       
       Website Designing
       Website Development
       Java Development
       PHP Development
       WordPress
       Graphic Designing
       Logo
       Digital Marketing
       On Page and Off Page SEO
       PPC
       Content Development
       Corporate Training
       Classroom and Online Training
       Data Entry
       
      
     
      
      Training For College Campus 
      JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at [email protected] Duration: 1 week to 2 week
     
     
     
      
      Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter  
       
       
       
       
       
       
     
     
      
       Learn Tutorials
       Learn Java
       Learn Data Structures
       Learn C Programming
       Learn C++ Tutorial
       Learn C# Tutorial
       Learn PHP Tutorial
       Learn HTML Tutorial
       Learn JavaScript Tutorial
       Learn jQuery Tutorial
       Learn Spring Tutorial
      
      
       Our Websites
       Javatpoint.com
       Hindi100.com
       Lyricsia.com
       Quoteperson.com
       Jobandplacement.com
      
      
       Our Services
       Website Development
       Android Development
       Website Designing
       Digital Marketing
       Summer Training
       Industrial Training
       College Campus Training
      
      
       Contact
       Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3
       Noida, UP, 201301, India
       Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935
       Contact Us 
       Subscribe Us 
       Privacy Policy
       Sitemap
       
       About Me
      
     
     
      © Copyright 2011-2021 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
      
      
      
     
   
   
  
   
     
 

