

 
  
  List of IIT in India - Javatpoint
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
   
   
   
  
  
  ? SCROLL TO TOP 
  
    
    
      
      
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           
           
       
      
      
     
     
      
       
       
      
      
       
       
      
     
     
      
       
       Home 
       List Of 
       Chemistry 
       Biology 
       Maths 
       GK 
       Reasoning 
       Aptitude 
       Verbal Ability 
       Java 
       JSP 
       Android 
       C# 
       HTML 
       CSS 
       jQuery 
       Programs 
       Interview Q 
       
       
     
     
     
     
      
     
     
      
      List Of 
      
      
      List Of 
      Billionaires 
      Mughal Emperors 
      European Countries 
      Apps Banned in India 
      US Presidents 
      Presidents of India 
      States in India 
      Inorganic Compounds 
      Continents 
      Marvel Movies in order 
      List of Fruits 
      List of Government Banks in India 
      Chinese app in India 
      Countries in the World 
      Union Territories in India 
      List of Colors 
      List of Finance Minister in India 
      List of Indian Mobile 
      List of Indian Snacks 
      List of Fundamental Rights 
      List of Cabinet Minister of India 
      List of IIM in India 
      List of Asian Countries 
      List of Banks in India 
      List of Outdoor Games 
      List of courses after 12th Commerce 
      List of iPhone 
      List of Animals 
      List of China Products in India 
      List of US states 
      List of Pirates of the Caribbean Movies 
      List of Chinese Products in India 
      List of diploma courses after 10th 
      List of African Countries 
      List of DD Channels 
      List of Banks Integrated with PFMS 
      List of Indoor Games 
      List of Cities in India 
      List Of Cities In USA 
      List of the Indian Festivals 
      List of Schemes by Narendra Modi Government 
      List of High Courts in India 
      List of Chief Justices of India 
      List of Popular English Songs 
      List Of Cities In Canada 
      List of Banks with Zero Balance Account 
      List Of Birds 
      List of Input Devices 
      List of Kitchen Items 
      List Of Makeup Items 
      List of Pet Animals 
      List Of Professions 
      List Of Properties Of Magnetic Lines Of Forces 
      List of Engineering Colleges in Bangalore 
      List of IIT in India 
      List Of Insurance Companies In India 
      List of Flowers 
      List Of Common Characteristics Of Living Things 
      List of Monuments In India 
      
      
      
      
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       
        
       
      
      
       
        
        
         
           
            
            next ? 
            ? prev 
            List of IIT in India The Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) are self-governing public technological institutes located throughout India. It is regulated by the Indian government's Ministry of Education. The Institutes of Technology Act of 1961 oversees them and classifies them as Institutes of National Importance and establishes their powers, responsibilities, and governance framework. In the Act of 1961, the institute of technology list is having twenty-three institutes. Although they are linked by a common council (the IIT Council) that oversees their administration, each IIT is self-contained. History The IIT concept dates back to 1946 when Sir Jogendra Singh of the Viceroy's Executive Council formed a panel to discuss the establishment of Higher Technical Institutions for India's post-war financial development. The 22-member group, chaired by Nalini Ranjan Sarkar, advocated for developing these institutes in various parts of India, with linked secondary establishments similar to the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. The Hijli Detention Camp in Kharagpur, West Bengal, became the first Indian Institute of Technology web page in May 1950. Maulana Abul Kalam Azad chose the name "Indian Institute of Technology" before officially inaugurating the institute on August 18, 1951. The Indian Institute of Technology (Kharagpur) Act was approved by the Indian Parliament on September 15, 1956. Admissions at IIT Admissions Process Step 1: Enrol for the JEE (Main) exam Based on their performance in JEE Main, around 150,000 students will be shortlisted for JEE Advanced. Step 2: Enrol for the JEE (Advanced) Only if your JEE (Main) exam score is greater than the NTA's officially declared minimum cut-off score for certain categories of students can you take the JEE (Advanced). Step 3: Determine your All India Rank (AIR) Those students who have given both papers 1st and 2nd of the JEE(Advanced) and scored at least 10% in Physics, Chemistry, and Mathematics and a total of 35% in the three disciplines would be considered for the ranking. Depending on the type of student, the criterion for deciding grades varies. Step 4: The Joint Seat Allocation Authority uses a standardized process to allocate seats at the various IITs (JoSAA) If your name appears on the All India Rank List, you will be obliged to participate in the joint seat allocation process of the JoSAA. Eligibility criteria for IIT IIT has two unique eligibility criteria: one for JEE (Main) and one for JEE (Advanced). 1. Eligibility to sit for the JEE (Main) Exam: If the individual has been given any prestigious exam apart from the 12th exam or the person who has completed their 12th exam, both are eligible for JEE (Mains). For example, suppose the student is appearing or wants to give the JEE Mains in 2021. In that case, the student needs to fulfil both the above criteria or the student must have completed their Class 12th or equivalent examination in 2019 or 2020. You are also entitled to sit the 12th or an equivalent test in 2021. 2. Qualification to take the JEE (Advanced) Exam: The minimum eligibility requirement for JEE (Advanced) is that you must have passed from a recognized Board of education 12th or equivalent exam with at least 75 percent aggregate marks (65 percent for SC/ST/PWD) or be in the top 20% percentile of applicants who have passed the same Board's final 12th Board examination. You may also take the JEE (Advanced) if you take a class twelve or equivalent test from a recognized Board of Education during the same school year as the JEE (Advanced). In this case, you will only be qualifying for a limited time. Following that, you must meet the standards of having a cumulative GPA of at least 75% or being in the top 20% of successful candidates before being admitted. It is the most important information to know if you want to know how to get into IIT. IIT Admissions Criteria To get admission into an IIT, you must meet at least one of the two criteria listed below (after getting your board result). 
            
            Board examination or equivalent grades. 
            Place in the top 20% of successful applicants in each category in the equivalent Class 12th Board exam that year. These category-specific top-20 percentile cut-off score lists are produced each year after the JEE Advanced test is completed and all Board results are known. 
            Both the aggregate Class 12th marks and the top 20% percentile cut-off score will be calculated using the marks gained in the five subjects listed below: 
            
            Physique 
            chemistry 
            Applied mathematics 
            a regional dialect (when you have taken more than 1 language, then the language in which you have scored higher might be considered) 
            Any issue that was not addressed in the previous four (the subject in which you have scored the highest marks will be considered) 
            List of IIT in India 
            
            
              
              S.no. 
              Name of College 
              Established 
              Abbreviations 
              State 
              
              
              1. 
              IIT Kharagpur 
              1951 
              IITKGP 
              West Bengal 
              
              
              2. 
              IIT Kanpur 
              1959 
              IITK 
              Uttar Pradesh 
              
              
              3. 
              IIT Bombay 
              1958 
              IITB 
              Maharashtra 
              
              
              4. 
              IIT Madras 
              1959 
              IITM 
              Tamil Naidu 
              
              
              5. 
              IIT Roorkee 
              2001 
              IITR 
              Uttarakhand 
              
              
              6. 
              IIT Patna 
              2008 
              IITP 
              Bihar 
              
              
              7. 
              IIT Guwahati 
              2004 
              IITG 
              Assam 
              
              
              8. 
              IIT Delhi 
              1961 
              IITD 
              Delhi 
              
              
              9. 
              IIT Mandi 
              2009 
              IITMD 
              Himanchal Pradesh 
              
              
              10. 
              IIT (BHU) Varanasi 
              2012 
              IIT (BHU) 
              Uttar Pradesh 
              
              
              11. 
              IIT Hyderabad 
              2018 
              IITH 
              Telangana 
              
              
              12. 
              IIT Jodhpur 
              2008 
              IITJ 
              Rajasthan 
              
              
              13. 
              IIT Goa 
              2016 
              IITGOA 
              Goa 
              
              
              14. 
              IIT Jammu 
              2016 
              IITJMU 
              Jammu & Kashmir 
              
              
              15. 
              IIT Indore 
              2009 
              IITI 
              Madhya Pradesh 
              
              
              16. 
              IIT Bhuvneshwar 
              2008 
              IITBBS 
              Odisha 
              
              
              17. 
              IIT Gandhinagar 
              2008 
              IITGN 
              Gujrat 
              
              
              18. 
              IIT Tirupati 
              2015 
              IITTP 
              Andhra Pradesh 
              
              
              19. 
              IIT Bhilai 
              2016 
              IITBH 
              Chhattisgarh 
              
              
              20. 
              IIT Palakkad 
              2015 
              IITPKD 
              Kerala 
              
              
              21. 
              IIT Dharwad 
              2016 
              IITDH 
              Karnataka 
              
              
              22. 
              IIT Ropar 
              2008 
              IITRPR 
              Punjab 
              
              
              23. 
              IIT (ISM) Dhanbad 
              2016 
              IIT (ISM) 
              Jharkhand 
              
            
            Explanation of some popular IIT 1. Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Kharagpur A public technical and research college in Kharagpur, West Bengal, India, is based on Indian authorities. The institute, founded in 1951 and known as an Institute of National Importance, was the first IIT.  In 2019, the Indian government granted the designation of Institute of Eminence to it. However, the institute's academic capabilities have grown throughout time, adding to the business, law, architecture, humanities, and other subjects. IIT Kharagpur has a campus that is 8.7 square kilometers (2,100 acres) in size and has approximately 22,000 people. 2. Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi (IIT Delhi) The Indian Institute of Technology Delhi is a public technical and studies college in the Delhi neighbourhood of Hauz Khas India. It is one of the era's oldest institutes. The institute was formally launched in August 1961 by Professor Humayun Kabir, Minister of Scientific Research and Cultural Affairs. In 1961, the first students were admitted.  The current campus is 320 acres (1.3 km2) in size and is bounded on the east by the Sri Aurobindo Marg, on the west by the Jawaharlal Nehru University Complex, on the south by the National Council of Educational Research and Training, and on the north by the New Ring Road, with the Qutub Minar and the Taj Mahal flanking it. It was elevated to the status of a full university, with the jurisdiction to establish academic policy, administer examinations, and confer degrees. 3. Indian Institute of Technology Roorkee Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) IIT Roorkee (abbreviated IIT Roorkee or IITR) is a public technical and research university in Roorkee, Uttarakhand, India, led by Roorkee Director Ajit Kumar Chaturvedi.  Their previous names were the University of Roorkee (1949-2001) and Thomason College of Civil Engineering (1847-1949). It was designated as a university in 1949 and an Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) in 2001, making it the ninth IIT to be created. IIT Roorkee provides Engineering, Applied Sciences, Humanities & Social Sciences, management levels, clinical and technological training, and research. 4. Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur It is one of India's top technological institutes. In 1959, an act of Parliament added the Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur. The Institute started operations in December 1959 in the Harcourt Butler Technological Institute building in Kanpur's Agricultural Gardens. In 1963, I.I.T. Kanpur relocated to its gift area.  The Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur was established by nine major leading U.S. research universities (most notably M.I.T., University of California, Berkeley, California Institute of Technology, Princeton University, Carnegie Institute of Technology, University of Michigan, Ohio State University, and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Case Institute of Technology and Purdue University) as part of the Kanpur Indo-American Programme (KIAP). 5. BHU (Indian Institute of Technology) Varanasi Indian Institute of Technology (BHU) Varanasi (IIT BHU) is a technical and research institution. Banaras Engineering College was founded in 1919 and renamed Banaras Hindu University's Institute of Technology in 1968.  In 2012, it was recognized as an Indian Institute of Technology. There are 16 departments, three inter-disciplinary schools, and one Humanities and Social Sciences Section of the Indian Institute of Technology (BHU) in Varanasi. It is not associated with Banaras Hindu University, despite its location on its campus. 
            
            
            Next Topic
            List Of Insurance Companies In India 
             
            
            ? prev 
            next ? 
             
          
        
        
       
       
      
        
        For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel:  Join Now 
       
       
      Feedback 
       
       Send your Feedback to [email protected] 
       
       
      Help Others, Please Share 
       
       
       
      
       
       
       
       
       
       Learn Latest Tutorials 
        
         
         
           
          Splunk 
           
         
         
           
          SPSS 
           
         
         
           
          Swagger 
           
         
         
           
          Transact-SQL 
           
         
         
           
          Tumblr 
           
         
         
           
          ReactJS 
           
         
         
           
          Regex 
           
         
         
           
          Reinforcement Learning 
           
         
         
           
          R Programming 
           
         
         
           
          RxJS 
           
         
         
           
          React Native 
           
         
         
           
          Python Design Patterns 
           
         
         
           
          Python Pillow 
           
         
         
           
          Python Turtle 
           
         
         
           
          Keras 
           
        
       
       
       
       Preparation 
        
         
         
           
          Aptitude 
           
         
         
           
          Reasoning 
           
         
         
           
          Verbal Ability 
           
         
         
           
          Interview Questions 
           
         
         
           
          Company Questions 
           
        
       
       
       
       Trending Technologies 
        
         
         
           
          Artificial Intelligence 
           
         
         
           
          AWS 
           
         
         
           
          Selenium 
           
         
         
           
          Cloud Computing 
           
         
         
           
          Hadoop 
           
         
         
           
          ReactJS 
           
         
         
           
          Data Science 
           
         
         
           
          Angular 7 
           
         
         
           
          Blockchain 
           
         
         
           
          Git 
           
         
         
           
          Machine Learning 
           
         
         
           
          DevOps 
           
        
       
       
       
       B.Tech / MCA 
        
         
         
           
          DBMS 
           
         
         
           
          Data Structures 
           
         
         
           
          DAA 
           
         
         
           
          Operating System 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Network 
           
         
         
           
          Compiler Design 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Organization 
           
         
         
           
          Discrete Mathematics 
           
         
         
           
          Ethical Hacking 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Graphics 
           
         
         
           
          Software Engineering 
           
         
         
           
          Web Technology 
           
         
         
           
          Cyber Security 
           
         
         
           
          Automata 
           
         
         
           
          C Programming 
           
         
         
           
          C++ 
           
         
         
           
          Java 
           
         
         
           
          .Net 
           
         
         
           
          Python 
           
         
         
           
          Programs 
           
         
         
           
          Control System 
           
         
         
           
          Data Mining 
           
         
         
           
          Data Warehouse 
           
        
       
      
     
     
      
      
       
     
     
     
      
       
      
     
      
     
     
     
      
     
      
     
      
     
     
     
      
      Javatpoint Services 
      JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on [email protected].com, to get more information about given services. 
       
       Website Designing
       Website Development
       Java Development
       PHP Development
       WordPress
       Graphic Designing
       Logo
       Digital Marketing
       On Page and Off Page SEO
       PPC
       Content Development
       Corporate Training
       Classroom and Online Training
       Data Entry
       
      
     
      
      Training For College Campus 
      JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at [email protected] Duration: 1 week to 2 week
     
     
     
      
      Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter  
       
       
       
       
       
       
     
     
      
       Learn Tutorials
       Learn Java
       Learn Data Structures
       Learn C Programming
       Learn C++ Tutorial
       Learn C# Tutorial
       Learn PHP Tutorial
       Learn HTML Tutorial
       Learn JavaScript Tutorial
       Learn jQuery Tutorial
       Learn Spring Tutorial
      
      
       Our Websites
       Javatpoint.com
       Hindi100.com
       Lyricsia.com
       Quoteperson.com
       Jobandplacement.com
      
      
       Our Services
       Website Development
       Android Development
       Website Designing
       Digital Marketing
       Summer Training
       Industrial Training
       College Campus Training
      
      
       Contact
       Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3
       Noida, UP, 201301, India
       Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935
       Contact Us 
       Subscribe Us 
       Privacy Policy
       Sitemap
       
       About Me
      
     
     
      © Copyright 2011-2021 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
      
      
      
     
   
   
  
   
     
 

