

 
  
  List of Monuments In India - Javatpoint
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
   
   
   
  
  
  ? SCROLL TO TOP 
  
    
    
      
      
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           
           
       
      
      
     
     
      
       
       
      
      
       
       
      
     
     
      
       
       Home 
       List Of 
       Chemistry 
       Biology 
       Maths 
       GK 
       Reasoning 
       Aptitude 
       Verbal Ability 
       Java 
       JSP 
       Android 
       C# 
       HTML 
       CSS 
       jQuery 
       Programs 
       Interview Q 
       
       
     
     
     
     
      
     
     
      
      List Of 
      
      
      List Of 
      Billionaires 
      Mughal Emperors 
      European Countries 
      Apps Banned in India 
      US Presidents 
      Presidents of India 
      States in India 
      Inorganic Compounds 
      Continents 
      Marvel Movies in order 
      List of Fruits 
      List of Government Banks in India 
      Chinese app in India 
      Countries in the World 
      Union Territories in India 
      List of Colors 
      List of Finance Minister in India 
      List of Indian Mobile 
      List of Indian Snacks 
      List of Fundamental Rights 
      List of Cabinet Minister of India 
      List of IIM in India 
      List of Asian Countries 
      List of Banks in India 
      List of Outdoor Games 
      List of courses after 12th Commerce 
      List of iPhone 
      List of Animals 
      List of China Products in India 
      List of US states 
      List of Pirates of the Caribbean Movies 
      List of Chinese Products in India 
      List of diploma courses after 10th 
      List of African Countries 
      List of DD Channels 
      List of Banks Integrated with PFMS 
      List of Indoor Games 
      List of Cities in India 
      List Of Cities In USA 
      List of the Indian Festivals 
      List of Schemes by Narendra Modi Government 
      List of High Courts in India 
      List of Chief Justices of India 
      List of Popular English Songs 
      List Of Cities In Canada 
      List of Banks with Zero Balance Account 
      List Of Birds 
      List of Input Devices 
      List of Kitchen Items 
      List Of Makeup Items 
      List of Pet Animals 
      List Of Professions 
      List Of Properties Of Magnetic Lines Of Forces 
      List of Engineering Colleges in Bangalore 
      List of IIT in India 
      List Of Insurance Companies In India 
      List of Flowers 
      List Of Common Characteristics Of Living Things 
      List of Monuments In India 
      
      
      
      
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       
        
       
      
      
       
        
        
         
           
            
            next ? 
            ? prev 
            List of Monuments In India India is one of the most magnificent nations in the world, famed for its rich heritage and interesting history. Its monumental structures, such as the Taj Mahal, serve as powerful cornerstones of India's rich and profound past. The archaic heritage places of India speak volumes, from their majestic architecture to their amazing, incredible legacy.  The majority of these Indian structures were mostly constructed during the reigns of Rajputana, Dravidian, and Mughal kings. India's monuments are living testaments to the splendour of its monarchs and the brilliance of its artisans in ancient India. Because of India's amazing beauty and the government's ongoing efforts to preserve cultural monuments, India has been designated as a UNESCO World Heritage Site. India tourism is growing fast, with a surge in the number of visitors from all around the globe. Red Fort, Sun Temple Konark, Amer Fort, and Charminar are among the well-preserved structures in the nation. Now let us have a look at some of the most eminent and important historical monuments in India. 1. Taj Mahal  This monument unquestionably represents India's visage. This architectural marvel, constructed of white marble, is also one of the Seven Wonders of the World. From global leaders to movie stars, prominent writers, to corporate moguls, the Taj Mahal is on everyone's bucket list of locations to see in the globe The Taj Mahal, which was completed in 1648, has remained a significant historic landmark for India; its exquisite architecture is most spoken about, and the heartwarming tale behind its building certainly inspires a desire to see the Epitome of Love. 2. Gateway of India Mumbai, Maharashtra  Crafted to honour King George V's royal visit, the Gateway of India has remained an irreplaceable historic icon for the city of Mumbai and the nation. This striking basalt arch, which represents imperial success, is now one of Mumbai's most prominent tourist attractions. Completed in 1924 and designed in the Islamic styles of 16th-century Gujarat architecture, this work of art witnessed India's journey to freedom as well as the 26/11 disaster. 3. India Gate  India Gate is without a question one of the nation's most recognised monuments. This magnificent monument sometimes referred to be a copy of the Arc de Triomphe in Paris, is devoted to the 70,000 troops who died during World War I. India Gate was completed in 1931 and rises 42 meters tall, with the names of Indian martyrs etched on it. The Amar Jawan Jyoti is a relatively later addition to the building, which was built during the Indo-Pak war in 1971. Today, India Gate is one of the most well-known landmarks in both Delhi and India. 4. Golden Temple, Amritsar  The features of Amritsar's Golden Temple are its fascinating tradition and gold-gilded facade. Sikhs from all over the world flock to pay their respects at the Golden Temple, and as a result, this location has grown in prominence in India's tourism industry. This Sikh temple was built in the Indo-Islamic architectural style by Arjan Sahib with the assistance of Baba Budha Ji. The temple is really a modest portion of a larger religious complex that also includes a well-known healing pond. The lower level of the temple is embellished with floral and animal designs similar to the Taj Mahal, while the upper tier is coated with sheets of gold, earning it the nickname "Golden Temple." 5. Hawa Mahal, Jaipur  This Palace of Winds is a significant sight in Jaipur's Pink City. Hawa Mahal is a five-story pyramidal edifice that stands 15 meters tall and overlooks the city's bustling streets. The monument was created by Maharaja Sawai Pratap Singh to allow ladies to glimpse the exterior world without being seen by others (Purdah System was prevalent at that time). The sights of Jantar Mantar, City Palace, and Sireh Deori Bazaar from the pinnacle of the monument are breathtaking. 6. Char Minar Hyderabad  This 16th-century structure in Hyderabad has unquestionably won the title of India's most architectural masterpiece. Charminar, which stands towering in Old Hyderabad, appears simply gorgeous when lit up in the evening. The meandering 149 stairs lead to the top of the skyscraper, where the sight is stunning. Sultan Muhammad Quli Qutb Shah did, in fact, give the Charminar to the City of Nizams. 7. Meenakshi Temple Madurai, Tamil Nadu  Meenakshi Temple said to be the greatest Indian architecture, is located on the banks of the Vaigai River in the temple city of Madurai. The temple is undoubtedly the most well-known structure in South India, and it is frequented by both believers and architecture enthusiasts throughout the year. The shrine is said to have 33,000 statues in its 14 gopurams, creating a really unique spectacle. 8. Agra Fort  As you reach the Taj Mahal, the red sandstone fortification wall will catch your eye. The second most common landmark in Agra is the Agra Fort, which was erected by Emperor Akbar. This fort was transformed into a palace during the era of Shah Jahan and afterward into a gilded jail under the era of Aurangzeb. The fort is just like a city within a city, with some beautiful architectural specimens to admire. This fort is considered to represent power, strength, and perseverance. Agra Fort, in its complete splendour, possesses a rich historical era and numerous events that are significant in Indian history. 9. City Palace Udaipur, Rajasthan  City Palace, one of Udaipur's most iconic structures, exemplifies exquisite Rajput architecture. This palace, which was built over a 400-year period, is on the edge of Lake Pichola, overlooking the city. The palace is a compound that includes 11 additional palaces. It is the exquisite place to admire the Rajput architecture. From the complex decorations to the selection of mirror and marble work, each has a particular flavour that distinguishes this venue differently. 10. Victoria Memorial Kolkata, West Bengal  The Victoria Memorial, unquestionably Kolkata's most iconic structure, is located on the banks of the Hooghly River. Built to honour Queen Victoria, this structure is now a recognised museum under the Ministry of Culture. This site occupies a good position in Kolkata's history as well as beauty, displaying an immense collection of colonial-era artifacts in its even-handedly done-up halls. 11. Khajuraho Group of Monuments, Madhya Pradesh  The Khajuraho Group of Monuments, most known for its erotic sculptures, is one of India's most popular tourist sites. These temple groups, built by the Chandela monarchs in the 10th and 11th centuries AD, are really a sight to behold. These well-known temples have a diverse assortment of sculptures, including sensual ones. The temples, which belong to both the Hindu and Jain religions, are excellent examples of architectural quality in the nation. 12. Ajanta & Ellora Caves Aurangabad, Maharashtra  Ajanta and Ellora Caves are two of India's most popular tourist destinations. These caverns, which date back to the 2nd century BC, are a representation of early man's lifestyle in the land. These rock-cut caverns have elaborate sculptures and wall paintings. Ajanta Caverns are generally known as Buddhist caves, whilst Ellora Caves are known as Hindu, Jain, and Buddhist caves. The Ajanta and Ellora Caves are among India's best-preserved wonders. 13. Amer Fort Jaipur, Rajasthan  This fort is Rajasthan's best example of Rajput architecture. Amer Fort, perched on a hillside, is a superbly constructed fort complex that includes palaces, temples, and a courtyard. Amer Fort is a delight to watch for tourists, with elaborate latticework, beautiful emboss, and mirrored work. The fort is a magnificent depiction of Rajput monarchs' long past. 14. Bahai Temple (Lotus Temple), New Delhi  Bahai Temple, also titles as the Lotus Temple, is a prime example of contemporary architecture in India. The lotus-shaped shrine is the Bahai sect's sacred center yet also attracts a great influx of visitors each day. The temple has also received several awards for its unusual architecture and has been featured in numerous journals and media. The shrine is made up of 27 free-standing petal-shaped stones clustered in threes to create nine sides. The Lotus Temple's nine doorways lead to a 40-meter-tall center hall that can host up to 2,500 people. 15. Qutub Minar and its Monuments, New Delhi  Qutub Minar, built by Qutub-ud-Din Aibak, is not only an iconic landmark in Delhi but also exhibits India's rich architectural heritage. This 73-meter-tall structure is both imposing in scale and stunning in appearance. Aibak erected the tower when the last Hindu monarch was vanquished, and it is said to have been built to commemorate the commencement of Mughal authority in India. The Quwwat-ul-Islam Mosque, located at the base of the tower, is said to be India's initial mosque. The central mosque has an inner and outer courtyard that is adorned with shafts and flanked by pillars. The majority of these shafts are from Hindu temples that were demolished to make way for the mosque. As a result, it is not surprising that the Muslim mosque contains characteristic Hindu decoration. The Iron Pillar, located near the mosque, is among Delhi's most famous antiquities. 16. Sanchi Stupa, Madhya Pradesh  Sanchi is known for having outstanding examples of Buddhist art and architecture. Sanchi, which dates from the early Mauryan period (third century BC to the twelfth century AD), is well-known around the globe for its stupas, massive Ashokan pillars, temples, monasteries, and sculptures. Emperor Asoka, who was intrigued by the position of the hill, established the foundations for a religious center at Sanchi, and his Queen Devi was the daughter of a Vidisha trader. He built the Great Stupa (Stupa 1) and housed Buddha's mortal remains. Following that, the time of allocation of Buddha's mortal remains in various Stupas was implemented. 17. Elephanta Caves Mumbai, Maharashtra The Elephanta group consists of seven caves dating from the sixth to the seventh century A.D. Cave 1 is the most impressive of the cave excavations, with its display of advanced Brahmanical rock-cut architecture. The cave is renowned for its magnificent carvings. The Elephanta Caves in Uran, District Raigad, are located on island hills about 11 kilometers north-east of the Apollo Bandar in Mumbai and 7 kilometers from the beach of the mainland, spanning an area of around 7 kilometers. The island is titled after a giant elephant that was discovered on the island, which is generally known as 'Gharapuri.' 18. Golconda Fort Hyderabad, Telangana  The Golconda fort is one of India's largest strongholds. The fort, built on a 400-foot-high hill, features three lines of huge defensive walls, one within the other, reaching a height of more than 12 meters. It was originally a mud fort constructed by the Kakatiya kingdom in the 13th century. It was strengthened in the 16th century by the Qutb Shahi dynasty, and a 7 km long outer wall composed of granite was built. During the Qutb Shahi dynasty, Golconda was also a prominent diamond trading center. The world's largest gems, including the Kohinoor, Darya-e-Noor, and Regent 'n Hope diamonds, originated here. 19. Gwalior Fort, Madhya Pradesh  Gwalior Fort, positioned on a high sandstone cliff, overlooks the city and is regarded as one of Gwalior's most stunning structures. It has seen notable occurrences like imprisonments, wars, and Jauhar's. A steep route leads up to the Fort, which is surrounded by rock-carved sculptures of Jain Tirthankaras. The impressive exterior walls of the Fort stand two miles long and 35 feet high, attesting to it being one of India's most impregnable forts. 20. Bara Imambara  Bara Imambara was created as part of a relief project following a terrible famine that occurred in 1784 by the fourth Nawab of Awadh, Asaf-ud-Daula. One of the most well-known structures in Lucknow is the Bara Imambara, commonly known as the Asfi Imambara after the title of the Nawab of Lucknow. It is a significant site of devotion for Muslims who gather here each year to observe the holy holiday of Muharram. These are just a some of the historical monuments in India. These monuments and sites are a crucial and vital part of the cultural heritage of India. 
            
            
            Next Topic
            # 
             
            
            ? prev 
            next ? 
             
          
        
        
       
       
      
        
        For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel:  Join Now 
       
       
      Feedback 
       
       Send your Feedback to [email protected] 
       
       
      Help Others, Please Share 
       
       
       
      
       
       
       
       
       
       Learn Latest Tutorials 
        
         
         
           
          Splunk 
           
         
         
           
          SPSS 
           
         
         
           
          Swagger 
           
         
         
           
          Transact-SQL 
           
         
         
           
          Tumblr 
           
         
         
           
          ReactJS 
           
         
         
           
          Regex 
           
         
         
           
          Reinforcement Learning 
           
         
         
           
          R Programming 
           
         
         
           
          RxJS 
           
         
         
           
          React Native 
           
         
         
           
          Python Design Patterns 
           
         
         
           
          Python Pillow 
           
         
         
           
          Python Turtle 
           
         
         
           
          Keras 
           
        
       
       
       
       Preparation 
        
         
         
           
          Aptitude 
           
         
         
           
          Reasoning 
           
         
         
           
          Verbal Ability 
           
         
         
           
          Interview Questions 
           
         
         
           
          Company Questions 
           
        
       
       
       
       Trending Technologies 
        
         
         
           
          Artificial Intelligence 
           
         
         
           
          AWS 
           
         
         
           
          Selenium 
           
         
         
           
          Cloud Computing 
           
         
         
           
          Hadoop 
           
         
         
           
          ReactJS 
           
         
         
           
          Data Science 
           
         
         
           
          Angular 7 
           
         
         
           
          Blockchain 
           
         
         
           
          Git 
           
         
         
           
          Machine Learning 
           
         
         
           
          DevOps 
           
        
       
       
       
       B.Tech / MCA 
        
         
         
           
          DBMS 
           
         
         
           
          Data Structures 
           
         
         
           
          DAA 
           
         
         
           
          Operating System 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Network 
           
         
         
           
          Compiler Design 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Organization 
           
         
         
           
          Discrete Mathematics 
           
         
         
           
          Ethical Hacking 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Graphics 
           
         
         
           
          Software Engineering 
           
         
         
           
          Web Technology 
           
         
         
           
          Cyber Security 
           
         
         
           
          Automata 
           
         
         
           
          C Programming 
           
         
         
           
          C++ 
           
         
         
           
          Java 
           
         
         
           
          .Net 
           
         
         
           
          Python 
           
         
         
           
          Programs 
           
         
         
           
          Control System 
           
         
         
           
          Data Mining 
           
         
         
           
          Data Warehouse 
           
        
       
      
     
     
      
      
       
     
     
     
      
       
      
     
      
     
     
     
      
     
      
     
      
     
     
     
      
      Javatpoint Services 
      JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on [email protected], to get more information about given services. 
       
       Website Designing
       Website Development
       Java Development
       PHP Development
       WordPress
       Graphic Designing
       Logo
       Digital Marketing
       On Page and Off Page SEO
       PPC
       Content Development
       Corporate Training
       Classroom and Online Training
       Data Entry
       
      
     
      
      Training For College Campus 
      JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at [email protected] Duration: 1 week to 2 week
     
     
     
      
      Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter  
       
       
       
       
       
       
     
     
      
       Learn Tutorials
       Learn Java
       Learn Data Structures
       Learn C Programming
       Learn C++ Tutorial
       Learn C# Tutorial
       Learn PHP Tutorial
       Learn HTML Tutorial
       Learn JavaScript Tutorial
       Learn jQuery Tutorial
       Learn Spring Tutorial
      
      
       Our Websites
       Javatpoint.com
       Hindi100.com
       Lyricsia.com
       Quoteperson.com
       Jobandplacement.com
      
      
       Our Services
       Website Development
       Android Development
       Website Designing
       Digital Marketing
       Summer Training
       Industrial Training
       College Campus Training
      
      
       Contact
       Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3
       Noida, UP, 201301, India
       Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935
       Contact Us 
       Subscribe Us 
       Privacy Policy
       Sitemap
       
       About Me
      
     
     
      © Copyright 2011-2021 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
      
      
      
     
   
   
  
   
     
 

