

 
  
  Machine Learning Experts Salary in India - Javatpoint
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
   
   
   
  
  
  ? SCROLL TO TOP 
  
    
    
      
      
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           
           
       
      
      
     
     
      
       
       
      
      
       
       
      
     
     
      
       
       Home 
       AI 
       Machine Learning 
       DBMS 
       Java 
       Blockchain 
       Control System 
       Selenium 
       HTML 
       CSS 
       JavaScript 
       DS 
       jQuery 
       Quiz 
       Interview Q 
       Comment 
       Forum 
       
       
     
     
     
     
      
     
     
      
      Machine Learning 
      
      
      Machine Learning Tutorial 
      Machine Learning Applications 
      Life cycle of Machine Learning 
      Install Anaconda & Python 
      AI vs Machine Learning 
      How to Get Datasets 
      Data Preprocessing 
      Supervised Machine Learning 
      Unsupervised Machine Learning 
      Supervised vs Unsupervised Learning 
      
      
      Supervised Learning 
      
      
      Regression Analysis 
      Linear Regression 
      Simple Linear Regression 
      Multiple Linear Regression 
      Backward Elimination 
      Polynomial Regression 
      
      
      Classification 
      
      
      Classification Algorithm 
      Logistic Regression 
      K-NN Algorithm 
      Support Vector Machine Algorithm 
      Naïve Bayes Classifier 
      
      
      Miscellaneous 
      
      
      Classification vs Regression 
      Linear Regression vs Logistic Regression 
      Decision Tree Classification Algorithm 
      Random Forest Algorithm 
      Clustering in Machine Learning 
      Hierarchical Clustering in Machine Learning 
      K-Means Clustering Algorithm 
      Apriori Algorithm in Machine Learning 
      Association Rule Learning 
      Confusion Matrix 
      Cross-Validation 
      Data Science vs Machine Learning 
      Machine Learning vs Deep Learning 
      Dimensionality Reduction Technique 
      Machine Learning Algorithms 
      Overfitting & Underfitting 
      Principal Component Analysis 
      What is P-Value 
      Regularization in Machine Learning 
      Examples of Machine Learning 
      Semi-Supervised Learning 
      Essential Mathematics for Machine Learning 
      Overfitting in Machine Learning 
      Types of Encoding Techniques 
      Feature Selection Techniques in Machine Learning 
      Bias and Variance in Machine Learning 
      Machine Learning Tools 
      Prerequisites for Machine Learning 
      Gradient Descent in Machine Learning 
      Machine Learning Experts Salary in India 
      Machine Learning Models 
      Machine Learning Books 
      Linear Algebra for Machine learning 
      Types of Machine Learning 
      
      
      Related Tutorials 
      
      
      Tensorflow Tutorial 
      PyTorch Tutorial 
      Data Science Tutorial 
      AI Tutorial 
      NLP Tutorial 
      Reinforcement Learning 
      
      
      Interview Questions 
      
      
      Machine learning Interview 
      
      
      
      
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       
        
       
      
      
       
        
        
         
           
            
            next ? 
            ? prev 
            Machine Learning Experts Salary in India Machine Learning (ML) is one of the most popular sub-part of Artificial Intelligence (AI) that uses important concepts of mathematics and data science to create human-like intelligent machines. Machine Learning is currently introduced in all technical and non-technical industries to solve various complex computation problems. It helps find patterns in the dataset, and these patterns make data predictions through data modeling. Due to all these advantages, machine learning technology is becoming trending day by day among people. In this article 'Machine Learning Experts Salary in India', we will discuss the basic introduction of Machine Learning experts, their salaries, factors affecting their salaries in India and other countries, the importance of machine learning experts, machine learning experts job roles, and responsibilities and skill required to become a Machine Learning expert, etc.  Let's start with the introduction of Machine Learning Experts. Machine Learning Expert: Introduction A Machine Learning expert is a dedicated programmer who helps machines understand and pick up vital information as required. The primary purpose of machine learning experts starts from creating and developing ML applications and enabling machines to take specific actions without explicit directions. Machine learning experts are quite similar to data scientists as both work on a heavy volume of data and have strong bonding over data handling. Hence, we can say that machine learning experts and data scientists work together where data scientist helps to separate important insights from entire datasets and share data with their team. In contrast, ML expert guarantees that data scientists well utilize these models. Further, all machine learning experts are also responsible for customizing data for analysis purposes, improving web and app-like experience, and identifying and predicting business requirements. Moreover, machine learning experts are also involved in robotics, web development, developing chatbots, data analytics, intelligent application development, etc. Machine Learning Experts: Roles and Responsibilities As similar to other technologies experts, machine learning experts also have their own roles and responsibilities. Some of them are as follows: 
            
            To create machine learning programs using predefined ML libraries. 
            Identifying, examining, clustering, and mining data for data modeling purposes. 
            Modify machine learning programs for scalability purposes. 
            Maintain the flow of data between the database and backend. 
            Debugging of machine learning codes. 
            Optimizing machine learning technologies in a production environment. 
            Developing neural network models that support the business/customer use cases. 
            Applying machine learning techniques to real-world problems. 
            Machine Learning Experts: Salaries in India As per statistics, machine learning experts earn salaries as per their experience level, job title, company, location, and skills. On average, a machine learning expert earns between 7-8 lakhs per annum as the total compensation. According to Glassdoor, in India, the average machine expert's salary is 7.6 lakh per annum, while as per Pay-scale data, it is around 7 lakh per annum. Machine Learning Experts Salary: Based on Experience Level 
            
            
              
              Experience Level 
              Salary 
              
              
              Fresher 
              5-6 LPA 
              
              
              Seniors 
              6-15 LPA 
              
              
              Experts 
              >15 LPA 
              
            
            Machine Learning Experts Salary: Based on Company 
            
            
              
              Company 
              Salary 
              
              
              Deloitte 
              6.5 LPA 
              
              
              Amazon 
              8.3 LPA 
              
              
              Accenture 
              15.5-16 LPA 
              
            
            Factors impacting the salary of Machine Learning experts The following factors majorly impact the salary of machine learning experts: Experience: Like all other fields, total years of relevant domain working experience also matter for deciding an employee's salary. It helps you understand the problems and give an appropriate production-ready solution. Hence, experience is one of the most important deciding factors in total compensation. If a company hires a beginner or fresher level candidate, then according to the sources, the average salary ranges between 5 to 6 lakh per annum (LPA). Similarly, senior-level candidates with experience of 4-5 years offer 6-15 lakh per annum, and expert candidates with experience of more than 6-8 years are eligible to gain a good salary package of more than 15 lakh per annum. Company: Other than the experience of candidates, the company is also one of the most important factors, which decides the salary of the machine learning experts in the industry. It directly affects the salary and perks of the candidates. 
            
            
              
              Company 
              Average Total Compensation 
              
              
              TCS 
              5 lakh per annum (LPA) 
              
              
              Cognizant 
              5.5 lakh per annum (LPA) 
              
              
              Wipro 
              5.6 lakh per annum (LPA) 
              
              
              Infosys 
              6.3 lakh per annum (LPA) 
              
              
              Accenture 
              7.75 lakh per annum (LPA) 
              
              
              Oracle 
              10.35 lakh per annum (LPA) 
              
              
              Google 
              12.15 lakh per annum (LPA) 
              
              
              Qualcomm 
              14.2 lakh per annum (LPA) 
              
            
            Professional Skills: Professional skills are the major impacting factors that decide how much machine learning experts earn in the industry. Every hiring process is based on the appropriate skill sets of the candidates. If you have good skillsets as per industry demand, it will be very helpful to clear any interview and the performance of that candidate in the production environment. Hence, based on the professional skillsets, the employee gets more salary and compensation according to company policies and terms & conditions. 
            
            
              
              Skills 
              Average Total Compensation 
              
              
              Machine Learning (ML) 
              7 lakhs per annum (LPA) 
              
              
              Computer Vision 
              7.25 lakhs per annum (LPA) 
              
              
              Natural Language Processing (NLP) 
              7.3 lakhs per annum (LPA) 
              
              
              Deep Learning 
              7.5 lakhs per annum (LPA) 
              
              
              Artificial Intelligence (AI) 
              8 lakhs per annum (LPA) 
              
            
            Location: In earlier days, location was undoubtedly the important impacting factor that used to decide an employee's salary in the industry. But nowadays, in the remotely working culture, location does not play a vital role in the compensation. However, it can affect the salary and compensations in terms of house rent (cost of living according to urban, rural, or metro cities) and travel allowances (cost of traveling for pick and drop of employees). These types of compensations also attract lots of candidates. 
            
            
              
              Location 
              Average Total Compensation 
              
              
              Bangalore 
              8.7 lakhs per annum (LPA) 
              
              
              Chennai 
              7.25 lakhs per annum (LPA) 
              
              
              Delhi 
              7 lakhs per annum (LPA) 
              
              
              Hyderabad 
              6.8 lakhs per annum (LPA) 
              
              
              Kolkata 
              6.4 lakhs per annum (LPA) 
              
              
              Mumbai 
              6.25 lakhs per annum (LPA) 
              
              
              Pune 
              6.15 lakhs per annum (LPA) 
              
              
              Noida 
              6 lakhs per annum (LPA) 
              
              
              Gurugram 
              5.35 lakhs per annum (LPA) 
              
            
            Skills Required for Machine Learning Experts If you are interested in any machine learning industry, then you should have a deep knowledge of anyone modern programming language. Further, specifically, as a machine learning expert, you should be proficient with one of the programming languages such as c, C++, Java, Python, R, Scala, MATLAB, etc. Other than the hands-on knowledge of the above-mentioned programming languages, you should have the knowledge of various frameworks like Keras, TensorFlow, PyTorch, etc. Further, one should understand a few languages specific libraries and packages such as SciPy, NumPy, pandas, matplotlib in Python. Moreover, as data science and machine learning are completely based on data, so having experience in RDBMS and NoSQL databases is necessary to extract and process data significantly. Hadoop, Spark, or Hive are a few important data processing ecosystems in the computer science world.  There are some other skills that help to become a machine learning expert: 
            
            Knowledge of cloud-based container environments like Docker, Mesos, Kubernetes.  
            Knowledge of Natural Language Processing and Deep neural networks like RNN, LSTM, GRU, CNN, etc. 
            Basic Knowledge of working with GPU, Cuda/CuDNN, profiling, and low-level optimizations. 
            Steps to Become a Machine Learning Expert Some major steps to become a sound machine learning expert as per industry requirements are given below. It is recommended to follow these steps, which help beginners as well as experts to move forward. These steps are as follows: 1. Learn Programming Language: Having sound knowledge of any programming language is the most important step to move forward in becoming a machine learning expert. Python is the best-suited programming language that helps in all machine learning tasks. The reason behind using Python is its ease of learning and frameworks. So, one should initially start learning the basic concepts of Python, then go to the advanced level for being a machine learning specialist in the industry. 2. Knowledge of Mathematics for Machine Learning: Mathematics is undoubtedly the most important foundation step to learning machine learning algorithms. One must have to gain expertise in Statistics, Probability, Derivatives, Linear Algebra, and Partial Derivatives. 3. Learning the basic concept of Machine Learning: After learning the above steps, you should need to learn the basic concepts of machine learning in order to become a machine learning expert in the industry. There are a few topics that you must learn: 
            
            Linear Regression 
            Logistic Regression 
            K Nearest Neighbours (KNN) 
            Decision Tree 
            Random Forest Algorithm 
            Support Vector Machine (SVM) 
            K Means Clustering 
            Cross-Validation and Bias-Variance Trade-off 
            4. Frameworks to build Machine learning concept To implement the algorithms and concepts easily in machine learning, an open-source framework is an essential part. You must need to learn these frameworks and their appropriate libraries in a preferred programming language. Some of the popular frameworks are TensorFlow, Keras, Torch, PyTorch, etc. 5. Understanding concepts of Natural Language Processing (NLP) and Deep Learning (DL): After learning above mentioned steps, this step will help you to become an expert in machine learning with a strong foundation. If you want to gain expertise in this field, then you should not stop here. You should explore yourself to gain expertise in some other topics such as Natural Language Processing, Deep Learning, Reinforcement Learning, etc. Gaining expertise in any of the above areas would make an individual domain expert. Machine Learning Experts Salary in other countries Similar to previously mentioned factors affecting salary and compensations, Machine Learning Experts' salary varies in other countries also. The average annual income of a machine learning expert in the USA is 120K USD and in the United Kingdom (UK) is 50K GBP.  Here's the list of salaries of Machine Learning experts in other countries: 
            
            
              
              Country 
              Salary(Annual) 
              
              
              United States of America (USA) $140,675 
              
              
              Canada 
              $93,684 
              
              
              Australia 
              $106,532 
              
            
            Conclusion Machine Learning is a very powerful technology that offers high salary packages to their experts in India as well as in other countries. It is highly impacted by total years of experience in the corresponding industry, the scale of the company, the skills of candidates, and the location. Generally, you can earn 5-6 lakhs per annum (LPA) at a very beginner level, and after gaining expertise, you can earn exponentially more salary packages in IT hubs in India such as Bangalore, Delhi, Noida, Pune, Hyderabad, and Kolkata, etc. 
            
            
            Next Topic
            Machine Learning Models 
             
            
            ? prev 
            next ? 
             
          
        
        
       
       
      
        
        For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel:  Join Now 
       
       
      Feedback 
       
       Send your Feedback to [email protected] 
       
       
      Help Others, Please Share 
       
       
       
      
       
       
       
       
       
       Learn Latest Tutorials 
        
         
         
           
          Splunk 
           
         
         
           
          SPSS 
           
         
         
           
          Swagger 
           
         
         
           
          Transact-SQL 
           
         
         
           
          Tumblr 
           
         
         
           
          ReactJS 
           
         
         
           
          Regex 
           
         
         
           
          Reinforcement Learning 
           
         
         
           
          R Programming 
           
         
         
           
          RxJS 
           
         
         
           
          React Native 
           
         
         
           
          Python Design Patterns 
           
         
         
           
          Python Pillow 
           
         
         
           
          Python Turtle 
           
         
         
           
          Keras 
           
        
       
       
       
       Preparation 
        
         
         
           
          Aptitude 
           
         
         
           
          Reasoning 
           
         
         
           
          Verbal Ability 
           
         
         
           
          Interview Questions 
           
         
         
           
          Company Questions 
           
        
       
       
       
       Trending Technologies 
        
         
         
           
          Artificial Intelligence 
           
         
         
           
          AWS 
           
         
         
           
          Selenium 
           
         
         
           
          Cloud Computing 
           
         
         
           
          Hadoop 
           
         
         
           
          ReactJS 
           
         
         
           
          Data Science 
           
         
         
           
          Angular 7 
           
         
         
           
          Blockchain 
           
         
         
           
          Git 
           
         
         
           
          Machine Learning 
           
         
         
           
          DevOps 
           
        
       
       
       
       B.Tech / MCA 
        
         
         
           
          DBMS 
           
         
         
           
          Data Structures 
           
         
         
           
          DAA 
           
         
         
           
          Operating System 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Network 
           
         
         
           
          Compiler Design 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Organization 
           
         
         
           
          Discrete Mathematics 
           
         
         
           
          Ethical Hacking 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Graphics 
           
         
         
           
          Software Engineering 
           
         
         
           
          Web Technology 
           
         
         
           
          Cyber Security 
           
         
         
           
          Automata 
           
         
         
           
          C Programming 
           
         
         
           
          C++ 
           
         
         
           
          Java 
           
         
         
           
          .Net 
           
         
         
           
          Python 
           
         
         
           
          Programs 
           
         
         
           
          Control System 
           
         
         
           
          Data Mining 
           
         
         
           
          Data Warehouse 
           
        
       
      
     
     
      
      
       
     
     
     
      
       
      
     
      
     
     
     
      
     
      
     
      
     
     
     
      
      Javatpoint Services 
      JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on [email protected], to get more information about given services. 
       
       Website Designing
       Website Development
       Java Development
       PHP Development
       WordPress
       Graphic Designing
       Logo
       Digital Marketing
       On Page and Off Page SEO
       PPC
       Content Development
       Corporate Training
       Classroom and Online Training
       Data Entry
       
      
     
      
      Training For College Campus 
      JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at [email protected] Duration: 1 week to 2 week
     
     
     
      
      Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter  
       
       
       
       
       
       
     
     
      
       Learn Tutorials
       Learn Java
       Learn Data Structures
       Learn C Programming
       Learn C++ Tutorial
       Learn C# Tutorial
       Learn PHP Tutorial
       Learn HTML Tutorial
       Learn JavaScript Tutorial
       Learn jQuery Tutorial
       Learn Spring Tutorial
      
      
       Our Websites
       Javatpoint.com
       Hindi100.com
       Lyricsia.com
       Quoteperson.com
       Jobandplacement.com
      
      
       Our Services
       Website Development
       Android Development
       Website Designing
       Digital Marketing
       Summer Training
       Industrial Training
       College Campus Training
      
      
       Contact
       Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3
       Noida, UP, 201301, India
       Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935
       Contact Us 
       Subscribe Us 
       Privacy Policy
       Sitemap
       
       About Me
      
     
     
      © Copyright 2011-2021 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
      
      
      
     
   
   
  
   
     
 

