

 
  
  Regression in data mining - Javatpoint
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
   
   
   
  
  
  ? SCROLL TO TOP 
  
    
    
      
      
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           
           
       
      
      
     
     
      
       
       
      
      
       
       
      
     
     
      
       
       Home 
       Java 
       Data Mining 
       Machine Learning 
       DBMS 
       AI 
       Blockchain 
       Control System 
       Selenium 
       CSS 
       JavaScript 
       jQuery 
       Quiz 
       Interview Q 
       Comment 
       Forum 
       
       
     
     
     
     
      
     
     
      
      Data Mining 
      
      
      Data Mining Tutorial 
      Data Mining Techniques 
      Implementation Process 
      Data Mining Architecture 
      Data Mining KDD Process 
      Data Mining History 
      Data Mining Tools 
      Data Mining vs Machine Learning 
      Facebook Data Mining 
      Social Media Data Mining Methods 
      Data Mining Cluster Analysis 
      Text Data Mining 
      Bagging vs Boosting 
      Data Mining vs Data Warehousing 
      Social Media Data Mining 
      Data Mining Bayesian Classification 
      Data Mining World Wide Web 
      Different types of Clustering Algorithm 
      Bitcoin Data Mining 
      Orange Data Mining 
      Data Mining vs Big Data 
      Decision Tree Induction 
      Educational Data Mining 
      Data Mining in Healthcare 
      Apriori Algorithm 
      Data Integration in Data Mining 
      Data mining vs Text mining 
      Discretization in data mining 
      Redundancy and Correlation in Data Mining 
      Classification of Data Mining Systems 
      Data Mining Models 
      Data mining vs Data Science 
      Data Mining vs Statistics 
      Data Mining vs Web Mining 
      Data Mining vs Data Analysis 
      Business Intelligence vs Data Mining 
      Data Mining vs Data Visualization 
      Data Mining vs Data Analytics 
      Types of Data Mining 
      Data Profiling vs Data Mining 
      Predictive Analytics vs Data Mining 
      Data Mining vs OLAP 
      Descriptive vs Predictive Data Mining 
      Spatial vs Temporal Data Mining 
      classification vs clustering 
      Hierarchical clustering in data mining 
      Density-based clustering in data mining 
      Aggregation in data mining 
      Regression in data mining 
      What is Outlier in data mining 
      
      
      MCQ 
      
      
      Data Mining MCQ 
      
      
      
      
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       
        
       
      
      
       
        
        
         
           
            
            next ? 
            ? prev 
            Regression in data mining Regression refers to a data mining technique that is used to predict the numeric values in a given data set. For example, regression might be used to predict the product or service cost or other variables. It is also used in various industries for business and marketing behavior, trend analysis, and financial forecast. In this tutorial, we will understand the concept of regression, types of regression with certain examples. What is regression? Regression refers to a type of supervised machine learning technique that is used to predict any continuous-valued attribute. Regression helps any business organization to analyze the target variable and predictor variable relationships. It is a most significant tool to analyze the data that can be used for financial forecasting and time series modeling. Regression involves the technique of fitting a straight line or a curve on numerous data points. It happens in such a way that the distance between the data points and cure comes out to be the lowest. The most popular types of regression are linear and logistic regressions. Other than that, many other types of regression can be performed depending on their performance on an individual data set. Regression can predict all the dependent data sets, expressed in the expression of independent variables, and the trend is available for a finite period. Regression provides a good way to predict variables, but there are certain restrictions and assumptions like the independence of the variables, inherent normal distributions of the variables. For example, suppose one considers two variables, A and B, and their joint distribution is a bivariate distribution, then by that nature. In that case, these two variables might be independent, but they are also correlated. The marginal distributions of A and B need to be derived and used. Before applying Regression analysis, the data needs to be studied carefully and perform certain preliminary tests to ensure the Regression is applicable. There are non-Parametric tests that are available in such cases. Types of Regression  Regression is divided into five different types 
            
            Linear Regression 
            Logistic Regression 
            Lasso Regression 
            Ridge Regression 
            Polynomial Regression 
            Linear Regression Linear regression is the type of regression that forms a relationship between the target variable and one or more independent variables utilizing a straight line. The given equation represents the equation of linear regression Y = a + b*X + e. Where, a represents the intercept b represents the slope of the regression line e represents the error X and Y represent the predictor and target variables, respectively. If X is made up of more than one variable, termed as multiple linear equations. In linear regression, the best fit line is achieved utilizing the least squared method, and it minimizes the total sum of the squares of the deviations from each data point to the line of regression. Here, the positive and negative deviations do not get canceled as all the deviations are squared. Polynomial Regression If the power of the independent variable is more than 1 in the regression equation, it is termed a polynomial equation. With the help of the example given below, we will understand the concept of polynomial regression. Y = a + b * x2 In the particular regression, the best fit line is not considered a straight line like a linear equation; however, it represents a curve fitted to all the data points. Applying linear regression techniques can lead to overfitting when you are tempted to minimize your errors by making the curve more complex. Therefore, always try to fit the curve by generalizing it o the issue. Logistic Regression When the dependent variable is binary in nature, i.e., 0 and 1, true or false, success or failure, the logistic regression technique comes into existence. Here, the target value (Y) ranges from 0 to 1, and it is primarily used for classification-based problems. Unlike linear regression, it does not need any independent and dependent variables to have a linear relationship. Ridge Regression Ride regression refers to a process that is used to analyze various regression data that have the issue of multicollinearity. Multicollinearity is the existence of a linear correlation between two independent variables. Ridge regression exists when the least square estimates are the least biased with high variance, so they are quite different from the real value. However, by adding a degree of bias to the estimated regression value, the errors are reduced by applying ridge regression. Lasso Regression The term LASSO stands for Least Absolute Shrinkage and Selection Operator. Lasso regression is a linear type of regression that utilizes shrinkage. In Lasso regression, all the data points are shrunk towards a central point, also known as the mean. The lasso process is most fitted for simple and sparse models with fewer parameters than other regression. This type of regression is well fitted for models that suffer from multicollinearity. Application of Regression Regression is a very popular technique, and it has wide applications in businesses and industries. The regression procedure involves the predictor variable and response variable. The major application of regression is given below. 
            
            Environmental modeling 
            Analyzing Business and marketing behavior 
            Financial predictors or forecasting 
            Analyzing the new trends and patterns. 
            Difference between Regression and Classification in data mining Regression and classification are quite similar to each other. Classification and Regression are two significant prediction issues that are used in data mining. If you have given a training set of inputs and outputs and learn a function that relates the two, that hopefully enables you to predict outputs given inputs on new data. The only difference is that in classification, the outputs are discrete, whereas, in regression, the outputs are not. But the concepts are blurred, as in "logistic regression", which can be interpreted as either a classification or a regression method. So, it becomes difficult for the user to understand when to use classification and regression. Difference between Regression and Classification in data mining   
            
            
              
              Regression 
              Classification 
              
              
              Regression refers to a type of supervised machine learning technique that is used to predict any continuous-valued attribute. 
              Classification refers to a process of assigning predefined class labels to instances based on their attributes. 
              
              
              In regression, the nature of the predicted data is ordered. 
              In classification, the nature of the predicated data is unordered. 
              
              
              The regression can be further divided into linear regression and non-linear regression. 
              Classification is divided into two categories: binary classifier and multi-class classifier. 
              
              
              In the regression process, the calculations are basically done by utilizing the root mean square error. 
              In the classification process, the calculations are basically done by measuring the efficiency. 
              
              
              Examples of regressions are regression tree, linear regression, etc. 
              The examples of classifications are the decision tree. 
              
            
            The regression analysis usually enables us to compare the effects of various kinds of feature variables measured on numerous scales. Such as prediction of the land prices based on the locality, total area, surroundings, etc. These results help market researchers or data analysts to remove the useless feature and evaluate the best features to calculate efficient models.  
            
            
            Next Topic
            What is Outlier in data mining 
             
            
            ? prev 
            next ? 
             
          
        
        
       
       
      
        
        For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel:  Join Now 
       
       
      Feedback 
       
       Send your Feedback to [email protected] 
       
       
      Help Others, Please Share 
       
       
       
      
       
       
       
       
       
       Learn Latest Tutorials 
        
         
         
           
          Splunk 
           
         
         
           
          SPSS 
           
         
         
           
          Swagger 
           
         
         
           
          Transact-SQL 
           
         
         
           
          Tumblr 
           
         
         
           
          ReactJS 
           
         
         
           
          Regex 
           
         
         
           
          Reinforcement Learning 
           
         
         
           
          R Programming 
           
         
         
           
          RxJS 
           
         
         
           
          React Native 
           
         
         
           
          Python Design Patterns 
           
         
         
           
          Python Pillow 
           
         
         
           
          Python Turtle 
           
         
         
           
          Keras 
           
        
       
       
       
       Preparation 
        
         
         
           
          Aptitude 
           
         
         
           
          Reasoning 
           
         
         
           
          Verbal Ability 
           
         
         
           
          Interview Questions 
           
         
         
           
          Company Questions 
           
        
       
       
       
       Trending Technologies 
        
         
         
           
          Artificial Intelligence 
           
         
         
           
          AWS 
           
         
         
           
          Selenium 
           
         
         
           
          Cloud Computing 
           
         
         
           
          Hadoop 
           
         
         
           
          ReactJS 
           
         
         
           
          Data Science 
           
         
         
           
          Angular 7 
           
         
         
           
          Blockchain 
           
         
         
           
          Git 
           
         
         
           
          Machine Learning 
           
         
         
           
          DevOps 
           
        
       
       
       
       B.Tech / MCA 
        
         
         
           
          DBMS 
           
         
         
           
          Data Structures 
           
         
         
           
          DAA 
           
         
         
           
          Operating System 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Network 
           
         
         
           
          Compiler Design 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Organization 
           
         
         
           
          Discrete Mathematics 
           
         
         
           
          Ethical Hacking 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Graphics 
           
         
         
           
          Software Engineering 
           
         
         
           
          Web Technology 
           
         
         
           
          Cyber Security 
           
         
         
           
          Automata 
           
         
         
           
          C Programming 
           
         
         
           
          C++ 
           
         
         
           
          Java 
           
         
         
           
          .Net 
           
         
         
           
          Python 
           
         
         
           
          Programs 
           
         
         
           
          Control System 
           
         
         
           
          Data Mining 
           
         
         
           
          Data Warehouse 
           
        
       
      
     
     
      
      
       
     
     
     
      
       
      
     
      
     
     
     
      
     
      
     
      
     
     
     
      
      Javatpoint Services 
      JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on [email protected], to get more information about given services. 
       
       Website Designing
       Website Development
       Java Development
       PHP Development
       WordPress
       Graphic Designing
       Logo
       Digital Marketing
       On Page and Off Page SEO
       PPC
       Content Development
       Corporate Training
       Classroom and Online Training
       Data Entry
       
      
     
      
      Training For College Campus 
      JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at [email protected] Duration: 1 week to 2 week
     
     
     
      
      Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter  
       
       
       
       
       
       
     
     
      
       Learn Tutorials
       Learn Java
       Learn Data Structures
       Learn C Programming
       Learn C++ Tutorial
       Learn C# Tutorial
       Learn PHP Tutorial
       Learn HTML Tutorial
       Learn JavaScript Tutorial
       Learn jQuery Tutorial
       Learn Spring Tutorial
      
      
       Our Websites
       Javatpoint.com
       Hindi100.com
       Lyricsia.com
       Quoteperson.com
       Jobandplacement.com
      
      
       Our Services
       Website Development
       Android Development
       Website Designing
       Digital Marketing
       Summer Training
       Industrial Training
       College Campus Training
      
      
       Contact
       Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3
       Noida, UP, 201301, India
       Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935
       Contact Us 
       Subscribe Us 
       Privacy Policy
       Sitemap
       
       About Me
      
     
     
      © Copyright 2011-2021 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
      
      
      
     
   
   
  
   
     
 

