

 
  
  Rules Of Tenses - Javatpoint
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
   
   
   
  
  
  ? SCROLL TO TOP 
  
    
    
      
      
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           
           
       
      
      
     
     
      
       
       
      
      
       
       
      
     
     
      
       
       Home 
       English Grammar 
       Spoken English 
       Physics 
       Chemistry 
       Biology 
       GK 
       Maths 
       Reasoning 
       Aptitude 
       Verbal Ability 
       Java 
       JSP 
       Android 
       C# 
       Programs 
       Projects 
       Interview Q 
       
       
     
     
     
     
      
     
     
      
      English Grammar 
      
      
      English Grammar 
      What Are Tenses 
      Rules Of Tenses 
      Tenses Chart 
      Types of Tenses 
      
      
      
      
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       
        
       
      
      
       
        
        
         
           
            
            next ? 
            ? prev 
            Rules Of Tenses English phrases or sentences are formed using tenses rules. There are three forms of tenses: present tense, past tense, and future tense. The past relates to what happened much before, the present tense relates to what is occurring now, and the future tense relates to what will happen after now. They essentially depict temporal elements based on the actual timing.  Tenses guidelines aid one in understanding how to rightly utilize distinctive types of tenses in a phrase with zero a linguistic error and successfully showing when an occurrence or act has taken place. In English language, tense is a strategy that is utilized to referring to the time - past - that has already happened, present- that is happening, and future - that will happen. Numerous languages utilise the tenses to refer to the time. Different languages have no knowledge of tense by any methods; yet, they can describe time using varied approaches. Rules of Tenses assist in understanding how to appropriately employ the various tenses in a phrase without creating a grammar mistake and readily indicate when a particular event has happened. A tense is a word form used to denote the onset of an event in relation to the time of the speech, and it denotes the end or continuation of an action. Whether you are a school kid or studying for a competitive exam or any other English competency exam, knowing the Tenses will undoubtedly help you score higher.  Let's look at some samples of different tenses, rules, and usage! As said in the beginning, there are basically three sorts of tenses: Past Tense; The Present Tense; Future tense These three tenses are further categorized depending on action continuation and completion of the activity Simple or Indefinite Tense; continuous tense; the perfect tense and the perfect continuous tense Simple Tense- It is used for continuing or routine activities in the Present Tense, actions that have already occurred in the Past Tense, and activities that will happen in the Future Tense. The action is fragmented, steady, or ongoing in the continual tense. Perfect Tense: The action is completed, accomplished, or outstanding in relation to a specified time period. Perfect Continuous Tense- The action has been ongoing for an extended period of time and is continuously happening. These are mandatory to comprehend the rules of tenses. As the norms and the rules are built around these only. Let us have a look at the rules Past Tense Rules An event or occurrence that happened in the past, as implied or referred by the past tense. For instance, he participated in football the other week, and the event has already occurred in this phrase. Some of the examples or instances of these include; Reema participated in the wedding festivities. He had already departed when I arrived. Priyanka wrote a letter to her camping pals. All these have already occurred or happened in the past. Simple Past Tense Rules Subject + V2 + Object So the rule for the simple past tense would be Ashok went to the camp Priya ate all the cookies  Past Continuous Tense Rules Subject + was + V1 + ing + Object (Singular) Subject + were + V1 + ing + Object (Plural) In English, the past continuous tense is highly essential, and we utilize it to explain what we were doing at a given point in time in the past. Some of the examples of this rule include: Rima was smelling the pudding. Rita was writing a note to the professor. Past Perfect Tense Rules Subject + had + V3 + Object The past perfect tense is simple to grasp and apply in a phrase. This tense refers to a task that happened in the past. If two activities occurred in the past, the past perfect tense is employed to show the older activity. Some of the examples of this rule are: Rima had taken the letter. She had wiped the floor. Past Perfect Continuous Tense Rules Subject + had been + V1 + ing + Object Used to describe a situation that began before a specific point in the past (time) and proceeded till a given point of time in the past. Some of the examples of this type of tense include; Riya was excited. She had been jumping and dancing. Had the child been wandering outside the house? Tom had been waiting in the rain the whole afternoon. Feroz had been munching cookies and wafers for the whole day. Present Tense Rules The present tense is a term denoting an activity that is now in progress, or that is routinely conducted. It refers to a situation that occurs in common or is actively in progress. The present tense refers to the moment when the occurrences are taking place right now. It may be defined as an articulation for an activity that is now taking place in real life, or that is habitually performed. It is utilized for a typically existing or at present happening expression. Some of the instances of this type of tense are It is a type of verb that states the occurrences/ incidents that are currently going on. I am walking to school. Ram has been part of this association for 3 years now. The movie is spectacular. Simple Present Tense Rules Subject + V1 + s/es + Object (Singular) Subject + V1 + Object (Plural) It is used to depict recurrent acts, universal truths, daily occurrences, and more. Some of the instances of this type of tense are The Sun rises in the East. Seema goes to university. Present Continuous Tense Rules Subject + is/am/are + V1 + ing + object This type of present tense is used to explain, narrate the events or actions happening in the present. Some of the examples of this type of tense are: I am eating the pudding We are going to the part today Riyan was writing the note to the professor  Present Perfect Tense Rules Subject + has + V3 + Object (Singular) Subject + have + V3 + Object (Plural) This is a type of tense that is used to convey the event or the task, which is just/recently accomplished/completed. Some of the examples of this type of tense are: She has just eaten the ice cream. We have just watched the movie. Present Perfect Continuous Tense Rules Subject + has been + V1 + ing + Object (Singular) Subject + have been + V1 + ing + Object (Plural) This tense is used to indicate an act that began in the past and continues in the present. Some of the examples of this type of tense are: I have been mopping the floor regularly since Sunday. He has been using the skin ointment for numerous days. Future Tense Rules The future tense is mainly used to narrate and explain the future events that have not occurred but possibly will happen in the near future. It is a form or a type of verb that will happen in the future & doesn't exist currently or at present. Some of the instances of this type of tense are; Aamna will be dancing to western music. We will be shifting to the rented house tomorrow morning. The bus will leave in 5 minutes. Simple Future Tense Rules Subject + will/shall + V1 + Object The time that passes after saying a statement is referred to as the future tense. This tense expresses future occurrences and occurring. Some of the examples of this type of tense are: I shall go to college tomorrow. My father will take care of me.  Future Continuous Tense Rules Subject + will be/shall be + ing + V1 + Object It is used to represent an event that will happen or continue in the future. e.g., He will hand out transfer letters at the workplace tomorrow at 12 p.m. In the example, the activity will begin in the future (tomorrow) and will be continued until some point in the future. Some of the examples of this type of tense are: He shall be writing his exam. We all will be going shopping this weekend. Future Perfect Tense Rules Subject + will have/shall have + V3 + Object It is used to represent an activity that will occur in the near future and will be accomplished by a specific period in the future. We can use future perfect to indicate that something will be completed by a specific date in the future. Some of the examples of this type of tense are: I shall have initiated singing by that time. We will have landed at Mumbai by then. Future Perfect Continuous Tense Rules Subject + will have been + V1 + ing + Object It is utilized to describe the events that will begin at a certain moment in the future and continue for an indefinite period of time. The future ideal maintains constant attention on the length of an action that will be in existence prior to another time or occurrence in the future. Some of the examples of this type of tense are: By next month they will be passing the college. They shall be helping the children in the slum area day after tomorrow. Tenses have become an important feature of the English language. It denotes the time activity occurs, whether it occurred previously, is currently occurring, or will occur sooner or later. By modifying the spelling of an action term, tense can be introduced. The rules specified above can be really helpful in having a stronghold and better understanding of the concept of Tenses. 
            
            
            Next Topic
            Tenses Chart 
             
            
            ? prev 
            next ? 
             
          
        
        
       
       
      
        
        For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel:  Join Now 
       
       
      Feedback 
       
       Send your Feedback to [email protected] 
       
       
      Help Others, Please Share 
       
       
       
      
       
       
       
       
       
       Learn Latest Tutorials 
        
         
         
           
          Splunk 
           
         
         
           
          SPSS 
           
         
         
           
          Swagger 
           
         
         
           
          Transact-SQL 
           
         
         
           
          Tumblr 
           
         
         
           
          ReactJS 
           
         
         
           
          Regex 
           
         
         
           
          Reinforcement Learning 
           
         
         
           
          R Programming 
           
         
         
           
          RxJS 
           
         
         
           
          React Native 
           
         
         
           
          Python Design Patterns 
           
         
         
           
          Python Pillow 
           
         
         
           
          Python Turtle 
           
         
         
           
          Keras 
           
        
       
       
       
       Preparation 
        
         
         
           
          Aptitude 
           
         
         
           
          Reasoning 
           
         
         
           
          Verbal Ability 
           
         
         
           
          Interview Questions 
           
         
         
           
          Company Questions 
           
        
       
       
       
       Trending Technologies 
        
         
         
           
          Artificial Intelligence 
           
         
         
           
          AWS 
           
         
         
           
          Selenium 
           
         
         
           
          Cloud Computing 
           
         
         
           
          Hadoop 
           
         
         
           
          ReactJS 
           
         
         
           
          Data Science 
           
         
         
           
          Angular 7 
           
         
         
           
          Blockchain 
           
         
         
           
          Git 
           
         
         
           
          Machine Learning 
           
         
         
           
          DevOps 
           
        
       
       
       
       B.Tech / MCA 
        
         
         
           
          DBMS 
           
         
         
           
          Data Structures 
           
         
         
           
          DAA 
           
         
         
           
          Operating System 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Network 
           
         
         
           
          Compiler Design 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Organization 
           
         
         
           
          Discrete Mathematics 
           
         
         
           
          Ethical Hacking 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Graphics 
           
         
         
           
          Software Engineering 
           
         
         
           
          Web Technology 
           
         
         
           
          Cyber Security 
           
         
         
           
          Automata 
           
         
         
           
          C Programming 
           
         
         
           
          C++ 
           
         
         
           
          Java 
           
         
         
           
          .Net 
           
         
         
           
          Python 
           
         
         
           
          Programs 
           
         
         
           
          Control System 
           
         
         
           
          Data Mining 
           
         
         
           
          Data Warehouse 
           
        
       
      
     
     
      
      
       
     
     
     
      
       
      
     
      
     
     
     
      
     
      
     
      
     
     
     
      
      Javatpoint Services 
      JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on [email protected], to get more information about given services. 
       
       Website Designing
       Website Development
       Java Development
       PHP Development
       WordPress
       Graphic Designing
       Logo
       Digital Marketing
       On Page and Off Page SEO
       PPC
       Content Development
       Corporate Training
       Classroom and Online Training
       Data Entry
       
      
     
      
      Training For College Campus 
      JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at [email protected] Duration: 1 week to 2 week
     
     
     
      
      Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter  
       
       
       
       
       
       
     
     
      
       Learn Tutorials
       Learn Java
       Learn Data Structures
       Learn C Programming
       Learn C++ Tutorial
       Learn C# Tutorial
       Learn PHP Tutorial
       Learn HTML Tutorial
       Learn JavaScript Tutorial
       Learn jQuery Tutorial
       Learn Spring Tutorial
      
      
       Our Websites
       Javatpoint.com
       Hindi100.com
       Lyricsia.com
       Quoteperson.com
       Jobandplacement.com
      
      
       Our Services
       Website Development
       Android Development
       Website Designing
       Digital Marketing
       Summer Training
       Industrial Training
       College Campus Training
      
      
       Contact
       Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3
       Noida, UP, 201301, India
       Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935
       Contact Us 
       Subscribe Us 
       Privacy Policy
       Sitemap
       
       About Me
      
     
     
      © Copyright 2011-2021 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
      
      
      
     
   
   
  
   
     
 

