

 
  
  Semi-Structured Data - javatpoint
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
   
   
   
  
  
  ? SCROLL TO TOP 
  
    
    
      
      
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           
           
       
      
      
     
     
      
       
       
      
      
       
       
      
     
     
      
       
       Home 
       Data Structure 
       C 
       C++ 
       C# 
       Java 
       SQL 
       HTML 
       CSS 
       JavaScript 
       Ajax 
       Android 
       Cloud 
       Design Pattern 
       Quiz 
       Projects 
       Interview Q 
       Comment 
       Forum 
       
       
     
     
     
     
      
     
     
      
      DS Tutorial 
      
      
      DS Tutorial 
      DS Introduction 
      DS Algorithm 
      Asymptotic Analysis 
      DS Pointer 
      DS Structure 
      
      
      DS Array 
      
      
      DS Array 
      2D Array 
      
      
      DS Linked List 
      
      
      Linked List 
      Types of Linked List 
      Singly Linked List 
      Doubly Linked List 
      Circular Linked List 
      Circular Doubly List 
      Skip list in DS 
      
      
      DS Stack 
      
      
      DS Stack 
      Array Implementation 
      Linked List Implementation 
      
      
      DS Queue 
      
      
      DS Queue 
      Types of Queues 
      Array Representation 
      Linked List Representation 
      Circular Queue 
      Deque 
      Priority Queue 
      
      
      DS Tree 
      
      
      DS Tree 
      Binary Tree 
      Binary Search Tree 
      AVL Tree 
      B Tree 
      B+ Tree 
      
      
      DS Graph 
      
      
      DS Graph 
      Graph Implementation 
      BFS Algorithm 
      DFS Algorithm 
      Spanning Tree 
      
      
      DS Searching 
      
      
      Linear Search 
      Binary Search 
      
      
      DS Sorting 
      
      
      Bubble Sort 
      Bucket Sort 
      Comb Sort 
      Counting Sort 
      Heap Sort 
      Insertion Sort 
      Merge Sort 
      Quick Sort 
      Radix Sort 
      Selection Sort 
      Shell Sort 
      Bitonic Sort 
      Cocktail Sort 
      Cycle Sort 
      Tim Sort 
      
      
      Differences 
      
      
      Linear vs non-linear 
      Array vs linked list 
      Stack vs queue 
      Linear vs Circular Queue 
      Linear Search vs Binary Search 
      Singly Linked List vs Doubly Linked List 
      Binary vs Binary Search Tree 
      Tree vs Graph 
      Binary Search tree vs AVL tree 
      Red Black Tree vs AVL tree 
      B tree vs B+ tree 
      Quick Sort vs Merge Sort 
      BFS vs DFS 
      Stack vs Heap 
      Bubble sort vs. Selection sort 
      Stack vs Array 
      Full Binary Tree vs Complete Binary Tree 
      Binary Tree vs B Tree 
      Primitive vs non-primitive data structure 
      Data types vs data structure 
      
      
      Misc 
      
      
      Trie Data Structure 
      Heap Data Structure 
      Splay Tree 
      Fundamental of the DS 
      Hash Table 
      Preorder Traversal 
      Tree Traversal 
      Implementation of Queue using Stacks 
      Implementation of Stack using Queue 
      Binomial Heap 
      Postorder Traversal 
      Sparse Matrix 
      Detect loop in a Linked list 
      Inorder Traversal 
      Convert Infix to Postfix notation 
      Convert infix to prefix notation 
      Conversion of Prefix to Postfix expression 
      Conversion of Postfix to Prefix expression 
      Remove the loop in a Linked List 
      Implement two stacks in an array 
      Reverse a stack using recursion 
      Detect cycle in a directed graph 
      Optimal Binary Search Tree 
      Priority Queue using Linked list 
      Balanced Binary Search Tree 
      Boundary Traversal of Binary tree 
      Diagonal Traversal of Binary Tree 
      Vertical Traversal of a Binary tree 
      Graph Algorithms 
      Time Complexity of Sorting Algorithms 
      Applications of Stack in Data Structure 
      Dictionary Data Structure 
      Structured Data and Unstructured Data 
      List Data Structure 
      Types of Tree in Data Structure 
      Abstract data type in data structure 
      Disjoint set data structure 
      Dynamic Data Structure 
      Hash Function in Data Structure 
      Complete Binary Tree 
      Threaded Binary Tree 
      Diameter of Binary Tree 
      Height of Binary Tree 
      Inorder Tree Traversal without Stack 
      Enumeration of Binary Trees 
      Maximum Width of a Binary Tree 
      Types of Graph in Data Structure 
      Primitive Data Type 
      Semi-Structured Data 
      Advance Data Structures 
      Sort an Array of 0's, 1's, and 2's 
      Stock Span Problem 
      Implementation of Deque by Circular Array 
      Rotate Operation in Linked List 
      
      
      DS MCQ 
      
      
      Data Structure MCQ 
      
      
      
      
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       
        
       
      
      
       
        
        
         
           
            
            next ? 
            ? prev 
            Semi-Structured Data Data can be defined as the information converted into a very economical form for translation or processing. Data, including video, images, sounds, and text, is represented as binary values that mean 0 or 1. Using these two numbers, patterns are generated to store different types of data. The smallest unit of data in a computer system is a bit, and a single value is represented using a bit. A byte is eight binary digits long. Data can be defined as information converted into binary digital form in today's computers and transmission media. With the increase in the number of computer users, the amount of data generated also increased significantly within the last decade. So a new term is coined for such a huge volume of data that is generating at a rapid speed. It is called big data. It is not only the volume of the data that has increased over time. Along with the volume, the variety of the data getting generated is increasing rapidly. So it becomes very important to classify the types of data that is getting generated. In this era of the internet, a vast amount of data is generated. This data can be text, images, videos, documents, pdf files, videos, log files, and many more. Now, let us classify this vast amount of data in broadly following categories. These categories are: 
            
             Structured Data Structured data differentiates from semi-structured data. It is information that has been specifically designed to be easily searchable, and it is quantitative and highly organized. It is typically stored in relational databases (RDBMS) and is frequently written in structured query language (SQL), a standard language developed by IBM in the 1970s for communicating with databases. Humans or machines can enter structured data, but it should adhere to a rigid framework with predefined organizational properties. Consider a hotel database that can be searched by guest name, phone number, room number, and other criteria. Or Excel files with data neatly organized into rows and columns.  
             Semi-structured Data Semi-structured data is a type of structured data that does not hold to the tabular structure of data models associated with relational databases or other types of data tables but still includes tags or other markers to separate semantic elements and enforce hierarchies of records and fields within the data. As a result, it is also referred to as a self-describing structure. In semi-structured data, entities of the same class may have different characteristics despite being grouped next to each other, and the order of the attributes is unimportant. Since the rise of the internet, semi-structured data have become more common, as full-text documents and databases are no longer the only types of data. Various applications require a medium for information exchange, and Semi-structured data is common in object-oriented databases. For example, Emails are semi-structured by Sender, Recipient, Subject, Date, and so on, or are automatically classified into folders such as Inbox, Spam, Promotions, and so on, using machine learning. Semi-structured data is a hybrid of Pictures and videos. For example, it may comprise Meta tags relating to the location, date, or person who took them, but the information is contained within them has no structure. Consider social media platforms such as Facebook, which organizes information by Users, Friends, Groups, Marketplace, and so on, but the comments and text within these classifications are unorganized. Semi-structured data is easier to analyze than structured data because it has a marginally greater level of organization. Still, it must also be broken down with machine learning tools before it can be analyzed without human intervention. It also includes quantitative data, which, like entirely unstructured data, can also provide much more useful insights.  
             Unstructured Data There is also unstructured data, which is typically open text, images, videos, and other media with no predetermined organization or design. Consider online reviews, documents, and other sources of qualitative data on opinions and feelings. This data is more difficult to analyze, but it can be structured to extract insights using machine learning techniques, though it must first be structured so that machines can analyze it.  
            Examples of Semi-Structured Data Semi-structured data comes in a multitude of formats, each with its own set of applications. Some are hardly structured at all, while others have a quite sophisticated hierarchical structure. 
            
             CSV The three main languages used to interact or transfer data from a web server to a client are CSV, XML, and JSON (i.e., computer, Smartphone, etc.). CSV stands for "comma separated values", and data are expressed as Lucy, Jessica, and Anthony. It can be expressed in the same way as Excel files but with only one column.  
             Email Email is arguably the most common type of semi-structured data since we all have it on a routine basis. Email messages comprise structured data such as name, email address, recipient, date, time, and so on, and are also organized into folders such as Inbox, Sent, Trash, and so on. Even if most email software packages allow you to find by keyword or other text, the data inside every email is unstructured. Emails can provide a plethora of data mining opportunities for enterprises to analyze customer feedback, ensure customer service is operational, and assist in creating marketing materials.  
             HTML HTML or "Hyper Text Markup Language" is a hierarchical language, and it is similar to XML but unlike XML. HTML is used to create websites and visualize information. The commentaries used to display text and images on a computer screen provide the semi-structure of HTML, but the text and images themselves are unstructured.  
             Web Pages Web pages are designed to be easily accessible with tabs like Home, About Us, Blog, Contact, and so on, or links to other pages within the text, to help users find the information they need. Of course, this is all authored in HTML, but we don't see that on the computer monitor. And the text and data on each of these pages are unstructured.  
             NoSQL Databases Non-relational databases are commonly referred to as NoSQL ("not only structured query language" or "non SQL") databases, with the most common types being document, key-value, wide-column, and graph. They are versatile data storage devices because they can store both structured and unstructured data. And are ideal for semi-structured data because they scale easily. A single added layer of structure (subject, value, data type, etc.) can make unstructured data easier to search and process.  
             Electronic Data Interchange (EDI) EDI is the electronic computer-to-computer transmission of business documents such as purchase orders, invoices, and inventory documents previously transmitted on paper. Because EDI uses many standard formats, including ANSI, EDIFACT, TRADACOMS, and ebXML, businesses must use the same format when communicating via EDI. EDI enables much faster and less expensive document transmission. Although each format is intended to be easily processed and understood by machines, the data contained within each transmission is unstructured.  
            Analyze Semi-Structured Data Interacting with semi-structured data is less difficult than dealing with unstructured data, but it still creates challenges. Text analysis designs can now instantaneously break down and analyze semi-structured and unstructured text data for powerful insights, thanks to AI-guided machine learning technology. Advantages & Disadvantages of Semi-Structured Data Semi-structured data has the following advantages and disadvantages, such as: 
            
            Semi-structured data is indeed not limited to a single architecture. So, for instance, a NoSQL database could even hold any format of data and can be easily scaled to store massive amounts of data. The downside is that this makes analyzing the data much more difficult. It must be manually processed (which takes hundreds of human hours) or first structured into a format that computers can comprehend. 
            Semi-structured data is far more storable and mobile than entirely unstructured data, but the storage cost is typically much higher than structured data. 
            Semi-structured data is versatile in that it allows you to start changing the schema. Still, the schema and data are frequently too tightly linked, so when conducting queries, you primarily have to know already what data you're looking for. 
            
            
            
            Next Topic
            Advance Data Structures 
             
            
            ? prev 
            next ? 
             
          
        
        
       
       
      
        
        For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel:  Join Now 
       
       
      Feedback 
       
       Send your Feedback to [email protected] 
       
       
      Help Others, Please Share 
       
       
       
      
       
       
       
       
       
       Learn Latest Tutorials 
        
         
         
           
          Splunk 
           
         
         
           
          SPSS 
           
         
         
           
          Swagger 
           
         
         
           
          Transact-SQL 
           
         
         
           
          Tumblr 
           
         
         
           
          ReactJS 
           
         
         
           
          Regex 
           
         
         
           
          Reinforcement Learning 
           
         
         
           
          R Programming 
           
         
         
           
          RxJS 
           
         
         
           
          React Native 
           
         
         
           
          Python Design Patterns 
           
         
         
           
          Python Pillow 
           
         
         
           
          Python Turtle 
           
         
         
           
          Keras 
           
        
       
       
       
       Preparation 
        
         
         
           
          Aptitude 
           
         
         
           
          Reasoning 
           
         
         
           
          Verbal Ability 
           
         
         
           
          Interview Questions 
           
         
         
           
          Company Questions 
           
        
       
       
       
       Trending Technologies 
        
         
         
           
          Artificial Intelligence 
           
         
         
           
          AWS 
           
         
         
           
          Selenium 
           
         
         
           
          Cloud Computing 
           
         
         
           
          Hadoop 
           
         
         
           
          ReactJS 
           
         
         
           
          Data Science 
           
         
         
           
          Angular 7 
           
         
         
           
          Blockchain 
           
         
         
           
          Git 
           
         
         
           
          Machine Learning 
           
         
         
           
          DevOps 
           
        
       
       
       
       B.Tech / MCA 
        
         
         
           
          DBMS 
           
         
         
           
          Data Structures 
           
         
         
           
          DAA 
           
         
         
           
          Operating System 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Network 
           
         
         
           
          Compiler Design 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Organization 
           
         
         
           
          Discrete Mathematics 
           
         
         
           
          Ethical Hacking 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Graphics 
           
         
         
           
          Software Engineering 
           
         
         
           
          Web Technology 
           
         
         
           
          Cyber Security 
           
         
         
           
          Automata 
           
         
         
           
          C Programming 
           
         
         
           
          C++ 
           
         
         
           
          Java 
           
         
         
           
          .Net 
           
         
         
           
          Python 
           
         
         
           
          Programs 
           
         
         
           
          Control System 
           
         
         
           
          Data Mining 
           
         
         
           
          Data Warehouse 
           
        
       
      
     
     
      
      
       
     
     
     
      
       
      
     
      
     
     
     
      
     
      
     
      
     
     
     
      
      Javatpoint Services 
      JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on [email protected], to get more information about given services. 
       
       Website Designing
       Website Development
       Java Development
       PHP Development
       WordPress
       Graphic Designing
       Logo
       Digital Marketing
       On Page and Off Page SEO
       PPC
       Content Development
       Corporate Training
       Classroom and Online Training
       Data Entry
       
      
     
      
      Training For College Campus 
      JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at [email protected] Duration: 1 week to 2 week
     
     
     
      
      Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter  
       
       
       
       
       
       
     
     
      
       Learn Tutorials
       Learn Java
       Learn Data Structures
       Learn C Programming
       Learn C++ Tutorial
       Learn C# Tutorial
       Learn PHP Tutorial
       Learn HTML Tutorial
       Learn JavaScript Tutorial
       Learn jQuery Tutorial
       Learn Spring Tutorial
      
      
       Our Websites
       Javatpoint.com
       Hindi100.com
       Lyricsia.com
       Quoteperson.com
       Jobandplacement.com
      
      
       Our Services
       Website Development
       Android Development
       Website Designing
       Digital Marketing
       Summer Training
       Industrial Training
       College Campus Training
      
      
       Contact
       Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3
       Noida, UP, 201301, India
       Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935
       Contact Us 
       Subscribe Us 
       Privacy Policy
       Sitemap
       
       About Me
      
     
     
      © Copyright 2011-2021 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
      
      
      
     
   
   
  
   
     
 

