

  
   
   
   
  
  
  
  
   
  Top 60+ Most Asked SAP FICO Interview Question and Answers - JavaTpoint 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
  
  ? SCROLL TO TOP 
   
    
     
      
      
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           
           
       
      
      
     
     
      
       
       
      
      
       
        
        
       
      
     
     
     
       
        Home 
        Interview Questions 
        Java 
        SQL 
        Python 
        JavaScript 
        Angular 
        Selenium 
        Spring Boot 
        HR 
        C 
        Data Structure 
        DBMS 
        HTML 
        C# 
        C++ 
      
      
      
     
     
     
     
      
      All Interview 
      
      
      Interview Tips 
      JOB/HR Interview 
      Competency Interview 
      Business Analyst 
      Behavioral Interview 
      
      
      Company Interview 
      
      
      Company Interview 
      IBM Interview 
      Infosys Interview 
      Capgemini Interview 
      Cognizant Interview 
      Wipro Interview 
      Accenture Interview 
      iGate Interview 
      TCS Interview 
      HCL Interview 
      Adobe Interview 
      Microsoft Interview 
      DXC Technology Interview 
      Ericsson Interview 
      EXL Service Interview 
      IndiaMART Interview 
      Intuit Interview 
      SpaceX Interview 
      Sapient Interview 
      Amazon Interview 
      
      
      Technical Interview 
      
      
      C Interview 
      C++ Interview 
      Data Structure Interview 
      Linux Interview 
      Unix Interview 
      Shell Scripting 
      Networking Interview 
      CCNA Interview 
      Android Interview 
      Cloud Computing 
      Hadoop Interview 
      Testing/QTP Interview 
      Selenium Interview 
      Web Services Interview 
      OS Interview 
      Excel Interview 
      SEO Interview 
      Digital Marketing 
      Python Interview 
      Django Interview 
      Pascal Interview 
      Ruby Interview 
      Ruby on Rails Interview 
      Memcached Interview 
      Go Interview 
      OpenStack Interview 
      Scala Interview 
      Control Systems 
      Electrical Machines 
      Power System 
      Digital Electronics 
      Robotics Interview 
      TypeScript Interview 
      Swift Interview 
      Blockchain Interview 
      Bitcoin Interview 
      AWS Interview 
      Informatica Interview 
      QA Interview 
      React Interview 
      GIT Interview 
      J2EE Interview 
      Deep Learning 
      Salesforce Interview 
      TestNG Interview 
      Agile Interview 
      Machine Learning 
      API Testing 
      Algorithm 
      Java Design Pattern 
      Teradata 
      TensorFlow 
      LINQ 
      Mainframe 
      Laravel 
      JIRA 
      JCL 
      Pytorch 
      ETL Testing 
      Linked List 
      DataStage 
      Tableau 
      SAP ABAP 
      DAA 
      Computer Graphics 
      Data Science 
      Software Engineering 
      Power BI 
      Xamarin 
      Ansible 
      Data Warehouse 
      Ionic 
      Devops 
      React Native 
      Python Pandas 
      HTTP Interview 
      Kali Linux Interview 
      PowerShell Interview 
      SharePoint Interview 
      Talend Interview 
      Microsoft Azure Interview 
      R Interview 
      Flutter Interview 
      MATLAB Interview 
      ES6 Interview 
      RPA Interview 
      Desktop Support Interview 
      Angular 8 Interview 
      GraphQL Interview 
      Vue.js Interview 
      Automation Anywhere Interview 
      AI Interview 
      UiPath Interview 
      Blue Prism Interview 
      SSIS Interview 
      Mobile Computing Interview 
      ITIL Interview 
      SAS Interview 
      Elasticsearch Interview 
      Entity Framework Interview 
      RxJS Interview 
      Accounting Interview 
      Electron.js Interview 
      Knockout JS Interview 
      Top Angular Interview 
      IAS Interview Question 
      Banking Interview 
      Interview Questions for Freshers 
      PowerPoint Interview 
      BPO Interview 
      Civil Engineering Interview 
      Apache Spark Interview 
      Data Mining Interview 
      Java Support Interview 
      Kubernetes Interview 
      Web API Interview 
      Scrum Master Interview 
      System Design Interview 
      SSB Interview Questions 
      Teachers Interview Questions 
      Finance Interview Questions 
      Technical Support Interview 
      Active Directory Interview 
      Appium Interview 
      Cucumber Interview 
      Full-Stack Developer 
      ServiceNow Interview 
      Nursing Interview 
      Sales Interview 
      Microservices Interview 
      Electrical Engineering Interview 
      Accounts Payable Interview 
      VISA Interview 
      VLSI Interview 
      AutoCAD Interview 
      Verilog Interview 
      OOPs Interview 
      Web Developer Interview 
      Express.js Interview 
      CakePHP Interview 
      Yii Interview 
      Zend Framework Interview 
      Java Concurrency Interview 
      Symfony Interview 
      Basic Interview 
      Dynamic Programming Interview 
      Programming Interview 
      Next.js Interview 
      Microsoft Java Interview 
      AEM Interview 
      Svelte.js Interview 
      COBOL Interview 
      Cyber Security Interview 
      SQL Query Interview 
      BGP Interview 
      Apache Hive Interview 
      Kafka Interview 
      Embedded C Interview 
      Pega Interview 
      Kotlin Interview 
      SAP MM Interview 
      
      
      Web Interview 
      
      
      HTML Interview 
      CSS Interview 
      JavaScript Interview 
      jQuery Interview 
      AngularJS Interview 
      Angular Interview 
      Angular 7 Interview 
      Node.js Interview 
      AJAX Interview 
      XML Interview 
      Dojo Interview 
      Backbone.js Interview 
      Ember.js Interview 
      XHTML Interview 
      XSLT Interview 
      XPath Interview 
      XQuery Interview 
      XForms Interview 
      SASS Interview 
      CoffeeScript Interview 
      LESS Interview 
      Perl Interview 
      Pure.CSS Interview 
      Materialize Interview 
      Framework7 Interview 
      SVG Interview 
      SAP FICO Interview 
      
      
      PHP Interview 
      
      
      PHP Interview 
      Wordpress Interview 
      Joomla Interview 
      Drupal Interview 
      Magento Interview 
      CodeIgniter Interview 
      Phalcon Interview 
      
      
      .Net Interview 
      
      
      .Net Interview 
      C# Interview 
      ASP.NET Interview 
      ADO.NET Interview 
      WCF Interview 
      WPF Interview 
      Silverlight Interview 
      F# Interview 
      
      
      Java Interview 
      
      
      Java 1 Interview 
      Java 2 Interview 
      Exception & String 
      Multithreading  
      Collections Interview 
      JDBC Interview 
      Servlet Interview 
      JSP Interview 
      EJB Interview 
      Struts Interview 
      Hibernate Interview 
      Spring Interview 
      Spring Boot Interview 
      Spring MVC Interview 
      JPA Interview 
      Maven Interview 
      JUnit Interview 
      JSF Interview 
      PrimeFaces Interview 
      RichFaces Interview 
      GWT Interview 
      JDB Interview 
      JOGL Interview 
      jBPM Interview 
      Jenkins Interview 
      Java Constructor Interview 
      Technical Architect Interview 
      Array Interview Questions 
      
      
      Database Interview 
      
      
      DBMS Interview 
      SQL Interview 
      PL/SQL Interview 
      Oracle Interview 
      MySql Interview 
      SQL Server Interview 
      MongoDB Interview 
      Cassandra Interview 
      DB2 Interview 
      Access Interview 
      SQLite Interview 
      CouchDB Interview 
      Neo4j Interview 
      MariaDB Interview 
      PouchDB Interview 
      Redis Interview 
      
      
      
       
          
        
       
           
        
      
      
     
     
      
      
      
       
       
        
          Top 60+ Most Asked SAP FICO Interview Question and Answers 1) What do you understand by the term SAP FICO? We already know that SAP stands for Systems, Applications & Products in Data Processing. In SAP FICO, FI stands for (Financial Accounting) and CO stands for (Controlling). To understand the concept well, we can divide the SAP FICO into two parts: SAP FI and SAP CO. The SAP FI takes care of accounting, preparation of financial statements, tax computations, etc. On the other hand, SAP CO takes care of inner orders, cost sheets, inventory sheets, cost allocations, etc. SAP FICO is the software that stores data, and also computes them, and retrieves the result according to the current marketing scenario. It is responsible for preventing data loss and also does the verification and reporting of data. 
           2) What is the main usage of SAP FICO? The SAP FICO modules are mainly used within a company to manage financial tasks within an international framework of languages and currencies. 
           
           The FI part of SAP FICO deals mainly in financial accounting such as fixed assets, accrual, cash journal, tax accounting, general ledger, and other financial tasks. 
           On the other hand, the CO part of SAP FICO deals with buying orders, stock sheets, cost sheets, cost assignments, and other tasks in this category. 
           
           3) What is the posting key, and why is it used? Posting Key is a two-digit numerical used to control and determine the transaction type entered in the line item. Posting Key is used to determine the following things: 
           
           Account Types 
           Types of posting. Debit or Credit 
           Field status of a transaction 
           
           4) What are the most important organizational elements in SAP FI? The most important organizational elements in SAP FI are: 
           
           Company Code 
           Business Area 
           Chart of Account 
           Functional Area 
           
           5) What is the best way to manage transactions originating from different lines of businesses within a company? The best way to manage transactions originating from different lines of businesses within a company is to create Business Areas. Another way is to create different company codes for each business line. 
           6) What are the other modules to which 'Financial Accounting' of SAP FICO is integrated? The other modules to which 'Financial Accounting' of SAP FICO is integrated are: 
           
           Sales and Distribution 
           Production Planning 
           Material Management 
           Human Resource 
           Controlling of financial transaction 
           
           7) What is the function of credit control in SAP FICO? Credit control is used to safeguard the business from overstretching its financial assets. Generally, we set a credit limit for the customers using SAP when the payment is made after the product's sale. Using this way, we can restrict the customer's amount to clear in their account before further starting a new purchase. 
           8) What is the use of company code in SAP FICO? In SAP FICO, the company code generates financial statements such as Profit and Loss Statements, Balance sheets, etc. 
           9) What are the options in SAP FICO for Fiscal years? In SAP FICO, the fiscal year is the way to store the financial data in the system. In SAP, you have 12 periods and four special periods. These periods are stored in fiscal year variant in the following way: 
           
           Calendar Year: From Jan-Dec, April-March 
           Year dependent fiscal year 
           
           10) How many Chart of Accounts can a company code have? You can have only one Chart of Accounts for one company code that is assigned. 
           11) What is the use of Chart of Accounts in SAP FICO? In SAP FICO, the Chart of Accounts is used to meet the daily needs of the company as well as the legal requirements of the country. The Chart of Accounts has two types: 
           
           Operating Chart of Accounts (COA): The Operating Chart of Accounts or operating COA is a record assigned to the company code and contains all the general ledger accounts. 
           Country Chart of Accounts (COA): The Country Chart of Account is the list of general ledger accounts required to meet the country's legal requirements. 
           
           12) How many currencies can we configure for a Company Code? We can configure three currencies for a Company Code, one is a local currency, and two are parallel currencies. 
           13) What do you understand by 'year shift' in the SAP calendar? The SAP system does not understand what a broken fiscal year is. For Example, from April 2020 to March 2021, it will only understand the calendar year. Suppose that the fiscal year is not a calendar year but the combination of the different months of two different calendar years for any business. In that case, one of the calendar years has to be classified as a fiscal year for SAP and the month falling in another year has to be adjusted into the fiscal year by shifting the year by using the sign -1 or +1. This shifting in the year is called the 'year shift'. For ExampleExample April 2020 to Dec 2020 is our first calendar year, and Jan 2021 to March 2021 is our second year, now if you are taking April-2020 to Dec-2020 as your fiscal year, then Jan-2021 to March-2021 automatically becomes the second year, and you have to adjust this year by using -1 shift, and vice versa if the scenario is reversed, here you will use +1 shift. 
           14) What are the different types of modules to which FI is integrated? FI is integrated into the following types of modules: 
           
           Production Planning 
           Human Resource 
           Material Management 
           Sales and Distribution 
           
           15) How input and output taxes are handled in SAP FICO? Every country has a tax procedure where tax codes are defined within this. It provides the flexibility to either expense out the Tax amounts or capitalize the same to stocks. 
           16) What is the field status variant and field status group? The field status variants are contained within field status groups. On the other hand, the field status groups are maintained within the General Ledger account. You use it to define the fields while you post to the general ledger. 
           17) What are validations and substitutions in SAP FICO? In SAP FICO, validations are used in the FI and CO modules to help ensuring data integrity when entering actual transactions online or in batch. On the other hand, the substitutions are used in the FI / CO / EC modules to derive or correct values being passed via integration or entered into the FI / CO modules. Validation and Substitution are defined for each functional area at the following levels: 
           
           Document Level 
           Line item Level 
           
           18) What are the application areas in SAP that use validation and substitutions? Following are the application areas in SAP that use validation and substitutions: 
           
           FI- Financial accounting 
           CO- Cost accounting 
           AM- Asset accounting 
           GL- Special purpose ledger 
           CS- Consolidation 
           PS- Project system 
           RE- Real estate 
           PC- Profit center accounting 
           
           19) What do you understand by year-dependent fiscal year variant? A year is called a year-dependent fiscal year variant if the number of days in a month is not as per the calendar month. For Example, in the year 2021, the month January ends on 30th, the month February ends on 27th, etc. 
           20) How can you make vendor payments? There are two methods to make the vendor payments: Manual Payment: The manual payment method is done without the use of a medium such as cheques. Automatic Payment: The automatic payment method is done through DME (Data Medium Exchange), such as wire transfer or cheque. 
           21) What is the use of FSV (Financial Statement Version) in SAP FICO? The Financial Statement Version or FSV is a reporting tool in SAP FICO. It can be used to extract final accounts from SAP like Profit and Loss Account and Balance Sheet. We can use multiple FSV's for generating the output of various external agencies such as Banks and other statutory authorities. 
           22) What are the different steps involved in G/L posting? After completing the payroll run, we have to add results to the GL accounts, including cost centers. GL posting includes the following steps: 
           
           Groups together posting-relevant information from the payroll results. 
           Creates summarized documents. 
           Performs the relevant postings to appropriate GL accounts and cost centers. 
           
           23) What do you understand by a field status group? A field status group is used to control the fields which come up when the user does the transactions. In FIGL (Financial General Ledger) master, the field status group is stored. 
           24) What are the most common G/L reports in SAP FI? Following are the several most common G/L reports that can be generated in SAP FI: 
           
           G/L Chart of Accounts List 
           G/L Account Balances 
           G/L Account List 
           G/L Account Totals and Balances 
           
           25) What is the importance of financial statements within a business in SAP FICO? In SAP FICO, the financial statements are used to manage the company's financial assets. By creating and handling such financial statements and records, we create data that we can use later to develop further plans and investments for our company. 
           26) How can you manage the credit limit for the customer in SAP FI? In SAP FI, the credit control is used to check the credit limit for the customer, and it can use one or more codes. It is used for credit management in Application components- Account Receivable (AR) and Sales and Distribution. 
           27) How many fiscal year variants can you use at a time? We can define up to 16 posting periods in a fiscal year in the controlling component CO. We need to specify the fiscal year variant for each company code. When you create a controlling area, you also need to specify the fiscal year variant. Each company code requires a specific fiscal year variant. Thus, while creating a controlling area, you should also specify that code's fiscal year variant. The credit control area is determined in the following sequence: 
           
           User exit 
           Distribution channel 
           Customer master 
           Company code for the sales organization 
           
           28) What is the use of Account Receivables in SAP FI? In SAP FI, Accounts Receivable components are used to record and manage the accounting data of all customers, and it is also an integral part of sales management. All postings in Accounts Receivable are also recorded directly in General Ledger. Different G/L accounts are updated depending on the transaction involved (for example, receivables, down payments, and bills of exchange). 
           29) What are the benefits of using Business areas in a company? Business areas in a company can be used if other company codes require the same areas. Following are the benefits of using Business areas: 
           
           The business area is easy to configure as you need to attach to the company code and the other details in the business area, and it will get attached by itself. 
           By using Business areas in controlling, you can create Profit and loss statements, Balance sheets, etc., for business areas, which is used for management accounting in a few companies. 
           Note: Business areas are more used in Controlling as compared to Finance Accounting. 
           30) What do you understand by company and company code in SAP FICO? In SAP FICO, a company is an organizational unit used in the legal consolidation module to roll up financial statements of several company codes. On the other hand, the company code is the smallest organizational unit for which a completely self-contained set of accounts can be drawn up for external reporting purposes. 
           31) What is the relationship between company code and controlling area in SAP FICO? A controlling area may contain one or more company codes that must use the same operative chart of accounts as the controlling area. A controlling area can contain multiple company code assignments, but a single company code can be assigned to only one controlling area. 
           32) What are the problems faced when we configure the business area? The main problem encountered when a business area is configured splitting of account balance which is more pertinent in the case of tax accounts. 
           33) What do you understand by parallel and the local currency in SAP FICO? The local currency is the currency that is entered in the company code creation. The other two additional currencies are called parallel currencies. Parallel currencies can be used in foreign business transactions, and it is also used to do international transaction. The examples of two parallel currencies are GROUP CURRENCY and HARD CURRENCY. 
           34) What are the customizing prerequisites for document clearing? The customizing prerequisite for document clearing is to check the items cleared and uncleared. This is done by open item management. Open item management is a process used to manage outstanding accounts, i.e., account payable and accounts receivable. For example, an invoice item that has not yet been paid is considered an open account until it is paid. 
           35) What do you understand by FI-GL Accounting? Why is it used? The FI-GL Accounting stands for Financial- General Ledger. It is used to get an overview of external Accounting and accounts. It records all business transactions incorporated with all other operational areas in a software system and ensures that the Accounting data is always complete and accurate. 
           36) What are the methods used to make vendor invoice payments? There are two methods used to make vendor invoice payments: Manual payment method is done without the use of any output medium like cheques etc. Automatic payment method is done using some output medium such as DME (Data Medium Exchange), cheques, Wire transfer, etc. 
           37) What is the default exchange rate type picked up for all SAP transactions? For all SAP transactions, the default exchange rate type is M (Average Rate). 
           38) What is the importance of GR/IR (Good Received/ Invoice Received) clearing account in SAP FICO? In SAP FICO, GR/IR stands for Good Received/ Invoice Received as an interim account. If the goods are received in the legacy system, and the invoice is not received, the provision is made. It passes the Accounting entry debiting the Inventory and crediting the GR/IR account. In the same way, when an invoice is received, the vendor account is credited, and the GR/IR account is debited. The GR/IR shows as un-cleared items till the time invoice is not received. 
           39) What are the different accounting groups that can be created in Account Receivable in SAP FI? Following are the different accounting groups that can be created in Account Receivable in SAP FI: 
           
           
             
             Group 
             Name 
             
             
             X001 
             Domestic Customers 
             
             
             X002 
             Export Customers 
             
             
             X003 
             One Time Customers 
             
           
           
           40) Is it possible to calculate depreciation to the day? How can you do that? Yes, it is possible to calculate depreciation to the day. The depreciation to the day function becomes active for an asset as soon as the asset has a corresponding depreciation key and is capitalized (posted to). Once this takes place, you cannot switch off this function for the asset, even if you change the depreciation key. 
           41) What is the use of Account payable in SAP FI? How is it related to G/L? In SAP FI, Accounts payable is used to manage and record the accounting data for all the vendors. It is related to G/L in the following ways: 
           
           All invoices and deliveries are managed as per vendor requests. 
           Payables are managed as per the payment program, and all payments can be made using checks, transfers, electronic transfers, etc. 
           All the postings made in Account payable are also updated in General Ledger simultaneously, and the system also maintains forecasts and standard reports that can be used to keep track of all the open items. 
           
           42) What are the internal orders in SAP FICO? Where can you use this? Internal orders are generally used to plan, collect, and settle the costs of internal jobs and tasks. Internal orders can also be used to track the cost, and they are proposed to be incurred over a short-term basis. 
           43) What do you understand by blocking a customer in SAP FI? When you block a customer account in AR so that postings are no longer made to that Account, this process is called blocking. We have to block a customer account before marking a customer master record for deletion. We should also block a customer that we use only as an alternative dunning recipient to ensure that nobody can post to that customer by mistake. We can set the following blocks for a customer in the Sales and Distribution (SD) application component: 
           
           Posting block 
           Order block 
           Delivery block 
           Invoicing block  
           
           44) What are the different blocks that can be applied to a vendor account in SAP FI? We can apply the following blocks to a vendor account in SAP FI: 
           
           Posting block for certain company codes or all company codes. 
           Purchasing block for certain purchasing organizations or all purchasing organizations. This block is only used if you have purchased and installed the purchasing application component. 
           
           45) What is the chart of depreciation in Asset Accounting? In Asset Accounting, the chart of depreciation is rated as the highest node, which is assigned to the company node. All the depreciation calculations are stored under the chart of depreciation. 
           46) How can you create Credit Control Area in SAP FI? We can create Credit Control Area in SAP FI by using transaction code OB45 or path. To do this, follow the steps given below: 
          
           
SPRO> enterprise structure >maintain structure>definition>financial accounting>maintain credit control area and then enter the following description: 

           
           
           Update 
           Name of the credit-control area in SAP 
           Currency 
           Description 
           Credit Limit 
           Risk Category 
           Fiscal Variant 
           Rep group 
           
           47) How can you manage the relationship between two currencies in SAP FI? To define and manage the relationship between two currencies in SAP FI, we use exchange rates. It is also used to translate an amount into another currency. Exchange rates are defined in the system for the following purposes: 
           
           Posting and Clearing: It translates amounts posted or cleared in foreign currency or checks a manually entered exchange rate during posting or clearing. 
           Exchange Rate Differences: It is used to determine gains or losses from exchange rate differences. 
           Foreign Currency Valuation: It is used to evaluate open items in foreign currency and foreign currency balance sheet accounts as part of the closing operations. 
           
           48) What is the field status group, and what does it use to control? The field status group is configured in FSV (Field Status Variant) to maintain field status for G/L (General Ledger) accounts. 
           49) What are some most important tables in SAP FICO? SAP FICO tables are used to store the data on a screen. Sometimes, more than one table is linked to a particular screen. An SAP FICO consultant must know the table in the SAP software and its data structure. Following is a list of some most important tables of SAP FICO: SAP Tables: Enterprise structure 
           
           
             
             Table 
             Description 
             
             
             T001 
             SAP Company-Code 
             
             
             T005 
             Countries in SAP 
             
             
             TCURC 
             SAP Currency-codes 
             
             
             TCURR 
             Exch-rate in SAP 
             
             
             TCURT 
             Currency-name in SAP 
             
             
             T077S 
             G/L Account-group 
             
             
             T009 
             Fiscal year variants in SAP 
             
             
             T880 
             Global-company-data in SAP 
             
             
             T014 
             Credit-control-area SAP 
             
             
             T004 
             SAP Chart of accounts (COA) 
             
             
             T010O 
             SAP Posting-period-variant (PPV) 
             
             
             T010P 
             Posting period variant names in SAP 
             
             
             T001B 
             Permitted posting periods in SAP 
             
             
             T003 
             Document-types in SAP 
             
             
             T012 
             House-banks in SAP 
             
           
           SAP FI G/L Tables 
           
           
             
             Table 
             Description 
             
             
             SKA1 
             Chart of accounts segment GL master data 
             
             
             SKB1 
             Company code segment G/l master data 
             
             
             BNKA 
             Bank master record in SAP 
             
             
             BKPF 
             SAP Accounting documents header 
             
             
             BNKA 
             Bank master record SAP 
             
             
             BKPF 
             Accounting documents header in SAP 
             
           
           SAP Accounts Receivable Table 
           
           
             
             Table 
             Description 
             
             
             KNBK 
             Bank details 
             
             
             KNVK 
             Contact persons 
             
             
             KNVH 
             Customer hierarchy 
             
             
             KNVI 
             Customer master tax indicator 
             
             
             KNB1 
             Customer master-Company code data 
             
             
             KNA1 
             Customer master-General data 
             
             
             KNVV 
             Customer master-Sales data 
             
             
             KNVP 
             Customer partners 
             
             
             KNVS 
             Shipment data for customer 
             
           
           SAP FI Accounts payable tables 
           
           
             
             Table 
             Description 
             
             
             LFBK 
             Bank details 
             
             
             LFM2 
             Purchasing data 
             
             
             LFM1 
             Purchasing organization data 
             
             
             LFB5 
             Vendor dunning data 
             
             
             LFB1 
             Vendor master-Company code data 
             
             
             LFA1 
             Vendor master-General data 
             
           
           SAP tables: Assets Accounting 
           
           
             
             Table 
             Description 
             
             
             ANKB 
             Asset classes: Depreciation area 
             
             
             ANKT 
             Asset classes: Description 
             
             
             ANKA 
             Asset classes: General data 
             
             
             ANEP 
             Asset line items 
             
             
             ANLU 
             Asset master record user fields 
             
             
             ANEK 
             Document header asset posting 
             
             
             ANLZ 
             Time-dependent asset allocation 
             
           
           SAP CO Tables Following is the list of important SAP CO tables: Cost Center accounting tables 
           
           
             
             Table 
             Description 
             
             
             CSKS 
             Cost center master data 
             
             
             CSKT 
             Cost center texts 
             
             
             CRCO 
             Assignment of work center to cost center 
             
             
             COSP 
             Cost totals for external postings 
             
             
             COEP 
             Line items (by period) 
             
             
             COBK 
             Document header 
             
             
             COST 
             Price totals 
             
           
           Profit center Accounting tables 
           
           
             
             Table 
             Description 
             
             
             GLPCA 
             Actual line items - Profit center 
             
             
             GLPCO 
             Object table for the account - Profit center 
             
             
             GLPCP 
             Plan line items - Profit center 
             
             
             GLPCC 
             Transaction attributes - Profit center 
             
             
             CEPC 
             Profit center master data table 
             
             
             CEPCT 
             Texts for profit center master data 
             
           
           
           50) What do you understand by posting period variants? In SAP FI, the posting period variants are accountable to control which Accounting period is open for posting and ensure that the closed periods remain balanced. In the fiscal year, the posting period is a period for which the transactions figures are updated. 
           51) What is APP in SAP FICO? In SAP FICO, APP stands for "Automatic Payment Program". It is an SAP tool provided to companies to pay their vendors and customers. APP tools facilitate users to avoid mistakes that take place in posting manually. Another benefit is that payment through APP becomes more feasible when the number of employees is more in the company. 
           52) How can you define the tolerances for invoice verification? In SAP FICO, the term tolerance specifies whether the payable places matching or tax hold on the invoice. Following is the list of instances of tolerance that can be defined for Logistics Invoice Verification: 
           
           Small differences 
           Moving average price variances 
           Quantity variances 
           Price variances  
           
           53) What do you understand by the short-end fiscal year? A short-end fiscal year comes into existence when you change from a normal fiscal year to a non-calendar fiscal year or the other way around. This type of change occurs when an enterprise becomes part of a new co-corporate group. 
           54) What do you understand by account group, and what is the use of it? Account group exists for the definition of GL account and Customer Master and Vendor. It is mainly used to control the data that needs to be entered at the time of the creation of a master record. 
           55) What do you understand by cost center and profit center in Controlling? Cost Center: A Cost center is a component in an organization that is added to the cost and indirectly added to the organization's profit. For example, Marketing and Customer Service. A company's business unit can be classified as a profit center, cost center, or investment center. The simple and straightforward division of an organization can be classified as a cost center as the cost is easy to measure. Profit Center: In SAP FICO, a profit center is used to manage internal controlling. When a company is divided into profit centers, it allows you to delegate responsibility to decentralized units and allows you to treat them as separate companies in a company. 
           56) What is the purpose of "Document type" in SAP FICO? Following is the list of main purposes of "Document type" in SAP FICO: 
           
           It is used to define the number range for documents. 
           It is used to control the types of accounts posted, such as Assets, Vendor, Customer, Normal GL account, etc. 
           It is also used for the reversal of entries. 
           
           57) In which application areas, validation and substitutions are used? Validation and substitutions are used in the following application areas: 
           
           AM-Asset accounting 
           CS-Consolidation 
           CO-Cost accounting 
           FI- Financial accounting 
           PC-Profit center accounting 
           PS-Project system 
           GL-Special purpose ledger 
           RE-Real estate 
           
           58) Is the business area at the company code level? No. Business area is at the client level instead of the company code level, and it means other company codes can also be posted to the same business area. 
           59) What are the one-time vendors in SAP FICO? In such companies especially dealing with high cash transactions, it is not practical to create new master records for every vendor trading partner. In these cases, one-time vendors come into existence, and they allow a dummy vendor code to be used on invoice entry and the information usually stored in the vendor master. 
           60) In SAP, at what level the Customer and Vendor codes are stored? In SAP FICO, the Vendor and Customer codes are stored at the client level. By extending the company code view, any company code can use the customer and vendor code. 
           61) What do you understand by accounting period variants and posting period variants in SAP FICO? In SAP FICO, accounting period variants are used to manage the accounting periods open for validation and for all closed periods to be deleted. These are used for opening and closing periods of the financial year for reservation purposes. These posting periods can be assigned to one or more companies. In SAP FICO, posting period variants are used to maintain accounting periods open to post while all closed periods are balanced. These are used to open or close periods in the fiscal year for posting. We can also use these posting periods to assign to one or more company codes. 
            
         
       
       
      
      
     You may also like: 
      
      Java Interview Questions 
      SQL Interview Questions 
      Python Interview Questions 
      JavaScript Interview Questions 
      Angular Interview Questions 
      Selenium Interview Questions 
      Spring Boot Interview Questions 
      HR Interview Questions 
      C Programming Interview Questions 
      C++ Interview Questions 
      Data Structure Interview Questions 
      DBMS Interview Questions 
      HTML Interview Questions 
      IAS Interview Questions 
      Manual Testing Interview Questions 
      OOPs Interview Questions 
      .Net Interview Questions 
      C# Interview Questions 
      ReactJS Interview Questions 
      Networking Interview Questions 
      PHP Interview Questions 
      CSS Interview Questions 
      Node.js Interview Questions 
      Spring Interview Questions 
      Hibernate Interview Questions 
      AWS Interview Questions 
      Accounting Interview Questions 
      
      
      
      Learn Latest Tutorials 
       
        
        
          
         Splunk 
          
        
        
          
         SPSS 
          
        
        
          
         Swagger 
          
        
        
          
         Transact-SQL 
          
        
        
          
         Tumblr 
          
        
        
          
         ReactJS 
          
        
        
          
         Regex 
          
        
        
          
         Reinforcement Learning 
          
        
        
          
         R Programming 
          
        
        
          
         RxJS 
          
        
        
          
         React Native 
          
        
        
          
         Python Design Patterns 
          
        
        
          
         Python Pillow 
          
        
        
          
         Python Turtle 
          
        
        
          
         Keras 
          
       
      
      
      
      Preparation 
       
        
        
          
         Aptitude 
          
        
        
          
         Reasoning 
          
        
        
          
         Verbal Ability 
          
        
        
          
         Interview Questions 
          
        
        
          
         Company Questions 
          
       
      
      
      
      Trending Technologies 
       
        
        
          
         Artificial Intelligence 
          
        
        
          
         AWS 
          
        
        
          
         Selenium 
          
        
        
          
         Cloud Computing 
          
        
        
          
         Hadoop 
          
        
        
          
         ReactJS 
          
        
        
          
         Data Science 
          
        
        
          
         Angular 7 
          
        
        
          
         Blockchain 
          
        
        
          
         Git 
          
        
        
          
         Machine Learning 
          
        
        
          
         DevOps 
          
       
      
      
      
      B.Tech / MCA 
       
        
        
          
         DBMS 
          
        
        
          
         Data Structures 
          
        
        
          
         DAA 
          
        
        
          
         Operating System 
          
        
        
          
         Computer Network 
          
        
        
          
         Compiler Design 
          
        
        
          
         Computer Organization 
          
        
        
          
         Discrete Mathematics 
          
        
        
          
         Ethical Hacking 
          
        
        
          
         Computer Graphics 
          
        
        
          
         Software Engineering 
          
        
        
          
         Web Technology 
          
        
        
          
         Cyber Security 
          
        
        
          
         Automata 
          
        
        
          
         C Programming 
          
        
        
          
         C++ 
          
        
        
          
         Java 
          
        
        
          
         .Net 
          
        
        
          
         Python 
          
        
        
          
         Programs 
          
        
        
          
         Control System 
          
        
        
          
         Data Mining 
          
        
        
          
         Data Warehouse 
          
       
      
     
     
     
      
     
      
     
      
     
     
     
      
     
     
     
      
     
      
     
     
      
      Javatpoint Services 
      JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on [email protected], to get more information about given services. 
       
       Website Designing
       Website Development
       Java Development
       PHP Development
       WordPress
       Graphic Designing
       Logo
       Digital Marketing
       On Page and Off Page SEO
       PPC
       Content Development
       Corporate Training
       Classroom and Online Training
       Data Entry
       
      
     
      
      Training For College Campus 
      JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at [email protected] Duration: 1 week to 2 week
     
     
     
      
      Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter  
       
       
       
       
       
       
     
     
      
       Learn Tutorials
       Learn Java
       Learn Data Structures
       Learn C Programming
       Learn C++ Tutorial
       Learn C# Tutorial
       Learn PHP Tutorial
       Learn HTML Tutorial
       Learn JavaScript Tutorial
       Learn jQuery Tutorial
       Learn Spring Tutorial
      
      
       Our Websites
       Javatpoint.com
       Hindi100.com
       Lyricsia.com
       Quoteperson.com
       Jobandplacement.com
      
      
       Our Services
       Website Development
       Android Development
       Website Designing
       Digital Marketing
       Summer Training
       Industrial Training
       College Campus Training
      
      
       Contact
       Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3
       Noida, UP, 201301, India
       Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935
       Contact Us 
       Subscribe Us 
       Privacy Policy
       Sitemap
       
       About Me
      
     
     
      © Copyright 2011-2021 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
      
      
      
     
   
   
   
   
     
 

