

 
  
  Top 10 Engineering College In Andhra Pradesh - Javatpoint
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
   
   
   
  
  
  ? SCROLL TO TOP 
  
    
    
      
      
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           
           
       
      
      
     
     
      
       
       
      
      
       
       
      
     
     
      
       
       Home 
       Top 10 
       Java 
       Aptitude 
       Reasoning 
       Verbal Ability 
       HTML 
       CSS 
       JavaScript 
       Selenium 
       Quiz 
       Projects 
       Interview Q 
       Comment 
       Forum 
       Training 
       
       
     
     
     
     
      
     
     
      
      Top 10 
      
      
      Top 10 
      Top 10 Programming Languages 
      Top Highest Paying Jobs in IT 
      Top most popular databases in the world 
      Top 10 Companies to work for in India 
      Top 10 highest paying IT certification for Tech professionals 
      Top 10 Alternatives of SolarMovie to Watch Movies Online 
      Top 10 Sports bikes in India 
      Top 10 Beer Brands in the World 
      Top 10 Beer brands in India 
      Top 10 Politicians in India 
      Top 10 Richest Caste in India 
      Top 10 Whisky brands in India 
      Top 10 Horror Movies 
      Richest Universities in the world  
      Top 10 Artificial Intelligence Movies 
      Top 10 Web Series 
      Top 10 Companies in the World 
      Top 10 Handsome Men 
      Top 10 Countries in the World 
      Top 10 schools in India 
      Top 10 Richest People 
      Top 10 Actors in India 
      Top 10 Army in the World 
      Top 10 Pharma Companies in India 
      Top 10 Tablets in India 
      Top 10 IMDB Movies 
      Top 10 Korean Drama 
      Top 10 Laptops 
      Top 10 Hollywood Horror Movies 
      Top 10 Android Games 
      Top 10 Money Earning Apps 
      Top 10 Mutual Funds 
      Top 10 PC Games 
      Top 10 MBA Colleges in India 
      Top 10 Cars in the World 
      Top 10 Sleeping Pills 
      Top 10 Network Marketing Companies in India 
      Top 10 IT Companies In India 
      Top 10 Football Players 
      Top 10 Perfumes for Men 
      Top 10 Schools in Delhi 
      Top 10 Freedom Fighters of India 
      Top 10 Hindi Songs 
      Top 10 Hindi Web Series 
      Top 10 Singers in India 
      Top 10 Dangerous Dogs 
      Top 10 Cement In India 
      Top 10 IT Companies In The World 
      Top 10 Largest Countries In The World 
      Top 10 Populated Countries 
      Top 10 Colleges of DU 
      Top 10 news channels in the world 
      Top 10 Cryptocurrency 
      Top 10 Economies In The World 
      Top 10 Free Fire Players In India 
      Top 10 Scooty In India 
      Top 10 English Songs 
      Top 10 Hollywood Action Movies 
      Top 10 Home Remedies For Pimples 
      Top 10 Martial Artists In The World 
      Top 10 Iron Rich Foods 
      Top 10 Shoe Brands 
      Top 10 Mileage Bikes In India 
      Top 10 News Channel In India 
      Top 10 Private Universities in India 
      Top 10 Beautiful Flowers in the World 
      Top 10 Degree Colleges In Hyderabad 
      B Praak Top 10 Songs 
      Top 10 T20 Batsman 
      10 Most Successful Businesses to Start 
      Top 10 Engineering College in Chennai 
      10 IIT Colleges in India 
      Top 10 Private Banks in India 
      Top 10 Sports Bikes in India 
      Top 10 Engineering College In Andhra Pradesh 
      Top 10 TV series 
      Top 10 Zombie Movies 
      Top 10 Face Wash in the World 
      Top 10 Universities in Canada 
      Top 10 comedy movies 
      Top 10 Dancers in India 
      Top 10 dancers in the world 
      Top 10 Stock Brokers in India 
      Top 10 Richest Person In The World 
      
      
      
      
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       
        
       
      
      
       
        
        
         
           
            
            next ? 
            ? prev 
            Top 10 Engineering College In Andhra Pradesh Engineering, the program that is very much favorite in our country and it's popularity among the individuals is increasing day by day which makes the selection of College from the available one a bit confusing. So here we are going to discuss the top engineering colleges in Andhra Pradesh. There are around 369 engineering institutions in A.P. 88 percent of those engineering colleges are private, 11 percent are government, and 1 percent are public-private institutions. According to the NIRF rankings, Andhra Pradesh has 18 of our country's best engineering institutions out of 300. Top 10 Engineering College In Andhra Pradesh 1. National Institute of Technology (NIT), Warangal  The National Institute of Technology, Warangal (NITW) is a famous engineering school in Warangal, India, with undergraduate and postgraduate programs. It was formerly known as the Regional Engineering College of Warangal (RECW). The institute was created in 1959 by then-Prime Minister Pandit Jawahar Lal Nehru as the first of India's 17 Regional Engineering Colleges. It is now a Nationally Significant Institute that offers bachelor, master, and doctoral degrees in engineering, technology, basic sciences, and management. Admission to this institute is possible only after clearing its accepted exams like IIT JEE, NIMCET, etc. 
            
            
              
              Courses 
              B.Tech., MBA, MCA, M.Tech., M.Sc., and Ph.D. 
              
              
              Official Website 
              https://www.nitw.ac.in/ 
              
              
              Address 
              National Institute of Technology Campus, Fathima Nagar, Telangana 506004 
              
            
            2. KL University (KLU), Guntur  In 1980, the Koneru Lakshmaiah Charities (K.L.) was established as a trust and in the academic year 1980-81, the Koneru Lakshmaiah College of Engineering was established. It is a deemed university. At the undergraduate, postgraduate, and doctoral levels, this college offers a variety of disciplines. Science & Technology, Engineering, Architecture, and Management are among the academic degrees available in the institute. The university is also active in the city of Hyderabad. 
            
            
              
              Courses 
              B.Tech., MBA, B.Pharm, M.Pharm, MBA, Master of Science (M.Sc.) + Ph.D., M.Sc. + M.Phil, BBA, B.Arch, BBA LLB, BCA in Cloud Technology & Information Security, B.Com (Hons), B.Sc. in Visual Communication, B.Sc in Hotel Management, BJMC, and M.Tech. 
              
              
              Official Website 
              https://www.kluniversity.in/ 
              
              
              Address 
              Green Fields, K L UNIVERSITY, Vaddeswaram, Andhra Pradesh 522303 
              
            
            3. Birla Institute of Technology & Science (BITS), Hyderabad, A.P.  One of the Birla Group's institutes, Birla Institute of Technology (BITS), has a branch in Hyderabad also. BITS Hyderabad was established in 2008. The institute's campus covers 220 acres of land. The institute's initial class graduated in 2012. The institute provides excellent campus amenities to its students. 
            
            
              
              Courses 
              B.E. (Hons), M.E., Ph.D., M.Pharm, M.Phil, M.Sc.(Hons.), and B.Pharm (Hons.) 
              
              
              Official Website 
              https://www.bits-pilani.ac.in/hyderabad/ 
              
              
              Address 
              BITS Pilani Hyderabad Campus, Secunderabad, Telangana 500078 
              
            
            4. Chaitanya Bharathi Institute of Technology  Chaitanya Bharathi Institute of Technology (CBIT) is a Gandipet-based institution. It is a part of Osmania University. CBIT is Hyderabad's first private engineering college and was founded in 1979 by a group of idealists from the fields of technology, medicine, law, and managerial staff, to provide the best management and innovation education to students and contribute to meeting the demand for skilled and technically capable engineers and experts. 
            
            
              
              Courses 
              B.Tech. and M.Tech. 
              
              
              Official Website 
              www.cbit.ac.in 
              
              
              Address 
              Osman Sagar Rd, Kokapet, Gandipet, Telangana 500075 
              
            
            5. Mahatma Gandhi Institute of Technology  MGIT stands for Mahatma Gandhi Institute of Technology. It is a technological institute. MGIT offers a four-year bachelor's degree in technology and a two-years master's degree in technology. Eight undergraduate programs are available at the college (Computer Science, Information Technology, Electrical & Electronics, Electronics & Communication, Mechatronics, Metallurgical & Materials Engineering, Civil Engineering, and Mechanical Engineering). 
            
            
              
              Courses 
              B.Tech. and M.Tech. 
              
              
              Official Website 
              www.mgit.ac.in 
              
              
              Address 
              MGIT Main Rd, Kokapet, Gandipet, Telangana 500075 
              
            
            6. Aditya Engineering College  Under the leadership of Aditya Academy of Kakinada, Aditya Engineering College (AEC) in Surampalem began operations in the academic year 2001-2002. The college is situated in Surampalem, Gandepalli Mandal, East Godavari, A.P. The institute is spread over 180 acres. Its excellent infrastructure is surrounded by lush greenery. The Sam Railway station is only 15 Km away, while Rajamundry and Kakinada are 35 Km from AEC. 
            
            
              
              Courses 
              Diploma, B.Tech., M.Tech., MBA, MCA, and Integrated MBA 
              
              
              Official Website 
              https://aec.edu.in/ 
              
              
              Address 
              Aditya Nagar ADB Road Surampalem, East Godavari, Andhra Pradesh, India 
              
            
            7. Sri Prakash College of Engineering  Sri Prakash College of Engineering (SPCE), Tuni, is situated on 50 acres of land in Tuni, East Godavari, Andhra Pradesh, in a beautiful valley with the backdrop of a wholesome hill. The College was established in 2001 by Sai Prakash Educational Society and is now proudly known for its huge contribution to the academic field. Tuni Railway Station is about 10 Km away, while Vizag Airport is at a distance of 100 Km from the institute. 
            
            
              
              Courses 
              Diploma and B.Tech. 
              
              
              Official Website 
              https://www.spcetuni.ac.in/ 
              
              
              Address 
              NH. 5, Rajupeta, Tuni, East Godavari, Andhra Pradesh 
              
            
            8. GITAM University, Visakhapatnam  With the support of a famous group of intellectuals, GITAM University, Visakhapatnam was established in 1980. It is also known as Geetham University and GITAM College of Engineering, Visakhapatnam. In the year 2007, the institute was designated as a "Deemed to be University." The GITAM University has three campuses: one in Visakhapatnam, one in Hyderabad, and one in Bangalore. 
            
            
              
              Courses 
              B.Tech., MBA, BBA, MCA, BA, M.Tech., MA, and Ph.D. 
              
              
              Official Website 
              www.gat.gitam.edu 
              
              
              Address 
              Gandhi Nagar, Rushikonda, Visakhapatnam, Andhra Pradesh 530045 
              
            
            9. Swamy Vivekananda Engineering College (SVEC), Vizianagaram  Swamy Vivekananda Engineering College (SVEC), Vizianagaram, founded in 2009, is a well-known private unaided college in Bobbili. SVEC Vizianagaram is the nickname of a college student. AICTE-approved courses and programs are available at the institute. The college is well-known for its academic standards and is associated with Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University, Kakinada. Swamy Vivekananda Engineering College (SVEC), Vizianagaram offers a balanced approach to education, focusing on both academic and personal improvement. 
            
            
              
              Courses 
              B.Tech. and M.Tech. 
              
              
              Official Website 
              http://sveb.edu.in/ 
              
              
              Address 
              Kalavarai (V), Balijipeta Road Bobbili, Andhra Pradesh - 535558 
              
            
            10. Venkateswara University, Tirupati  S.V. University, also known as Sri Venkateswara University, is a Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanam-run university in Tirupati that ranks 153rd among India's best engineering schools. The College has a total of 33.29 points. The engineering college, founded in 1959, is nestled among the natural splendor of the Tirumala hills at a peaceful location. 
            
            
              
              Courses 
              B.Tech., MBA, MCA, M.Tech., M.Sc., and Ph.D. 
              
              
              Official Website 
              https://www.svuniversity.edu.in/  
              
              
              Address 
              Sri Padmavati Mahila Visvavidyalayam, Tirupati, Andhra Pradesh 517502 
              
            
            
            
            
            Next Topic
            Top 10 TV series 
             
            
            ? prev 
            next ? 
             
          
        
        
       
       
      
        
        For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel:  Join Now 
       
       
      Feedback 
       
       Send your Feedback to [email protected] 
       
       
      Help Others, Please Share 
       
       
       
      
       
       
       
       
       
       Learn Latest Tutorials 
        
         
         
           
          Splunk 
           
         
         
           
          SPSS 
           
         
         
           
          Swagger 
           
         
         
           
          Transact-SQL 
           
         
         
           
          Tumblr 
           
         
         
           
          ReactJS 
           
         
         
           
          Regex 
           
         
         
           
          Reinforcement Learning 
           
         
         
           
          R Programming 
           
         
         
           
          RxJS 
           
         
         
           
          React Native 
           
         
         
           
          Python Design Patterns 
           
         
         
           
          Python Pillow 
           
         
         
           
          Python Turtle 
           
         
         
           
          Keras 
           
        
       
       
       
       Preparation 
        
         
         
           
          Aptitude 
           
         
         
           
          Reasoning 
           
         
         
           
          Verbal Ability 
           
         
         
           
          Interview Questions 
           
         
         
           
          Company Questions 
           
        
       
       
       
       Trending Technologies 
        
         
         
           
          Artificial Intelligence 
           
         
         
           
          AWS 
           
         
         
           
          Selenium 
           
         
         
           
          Cloud Computing 
           
         
         
           
          Hadoop 
           
         
         
           
          ReactJS 
           
         
         
           
          Data Science 
           
         
         
           
          Angular 7 
           
         
         
           
          Blockchain 
           
         
         
           
          Git 
           
         
         
           
          Machine Learning 
           
         
         
           
          DevOps 
           
        
       
       
       
       B.Tech / MCA 
        
         
         
           
          DBMS 
           
         
         
           
          Data Structures 
           
         
         
           
          DAA 
           
         
         
           
          Operating System 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Network 
           
         
         
           
          Compiler Design 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Organization 
           
         
         
           
          Discrete Mathematics 
           
         
         
           
          Ethical Hacking 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Graphics 
           
         
         
           
          Software Engineering 
           
         
         
           
          Web Technology 
           
         
         
           
          Cyber Security 
           
         
         
           
          Automata 
           
         
         
           
          C Programming 
           
         
         
           
          C++ 
           
         
         
           
          Java 
           
         
         
           
          .Net 
           
         
         
           
          Python 
           
         
         
           
          Programs 
           
         
         
           
          Control System 
           
         
         
           
          Data Mining 
           
         
         
           
          Data Warehouse 
           
        
       
      
     
     
      
      
       
     
     
     
      
       
      
     
      
     
     
     
      
     
      
     
      
     
     
     
      
      Javatpoint Services 
      JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on [email protected], to get more information about given services. 
       
       Website Designing
       Website Development
       Java Development
       PHP Development
       WordPress
       Graphic Designing
       Logo
       Digital Marketing
       On Page and Off Page SEO
       PPC
       Content Development
       Corporate Training
       Classroom and Online Training
       Data Entry
       
      
     
      
      Training For College Campus 
      JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at [email protected] Duration: 1 week to 2 week
     
     
     
      
      Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter  
       
       
       
       
       
       
     
     
      
       Learn Tutorials
       Learn Java
       Learn Data Structures
       Learn C Programming
       Learn C++ Tutorial
       Learn C# Tutorial
       Learn PHP Tutorial
       Learn HTML Tutorial
       Learn JavaScript Tutorial
       Learn jQuery Tutorial
       Learn Spring Tutorial
      
      
       Our Websites
       Javatpoint.com
       Hindi100.com
       Lyricsia.com
       Quoteperson.com
       Jobandplacement.com
      
      
       Our Services
       Website Development
       Android Development
       Website Designing
       Digital Marketing
       Summer Training
       Industrial Training
       College Campus Training
      
      
       Contact
       Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3
       Noida, UP, 201301, India
       Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935
       Contact Us 
       Subscribe Us 
       Privacy Policy
       Sitemap
       
       About Me
      
     
     
      © Copyright 2011-2021 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
      
      
      
     
   
   
  
   
     
 

