

 
  
  Top 10 Stock Brokers in India - Javatpoint
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
   
   
   
  
  
  ? SCROLL TO TOP 
  
    
    
      
      
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           
           
       
      
      
     
     
      
       
       
      
      
       
       
      
     
     
      
       
       Home 
       Top 10 
       Java 
       Aptitude 
       Reasoning 
       Verbal Ability 
       HTML 
       CSS 
       JavaScript 
       Selenium 
       Quiz 
       Projects 
       Interview Q 
       Comment 
       Forum 
       Training 
       
       
     
     
     
     
      
     
     
      
      Top 10 
      
      
      Top 10 
      Top 10 Programming Languages 
      Top Highest Paying Jobs in IT 
      Top most popular databases in the world 
      Top 10 Companies to work for in India 
      Top 10 highest paying IT certification for Tech professionals 
      Top 10 Alternatives of SolarMovie to Watch Movies Online 
      Top 10 Sports bikes in India 
      Top 10 Beer Brands in the World 
      Top 10 Beer brands in India 
      Top 10 Politicians in India 
      Top 10 Richest Caste in India 
      Top 10 Whisky brands in India 
      Top 10 Horror Movies 
      Richest Universities in the world  
      Top 10 Artificial Intelligence Movies 
      Top 10 Web Series 
      Top 10 Companies in the World 
      Top 10 Handsome Men 
      Top 10 Countries in the World 
      Top 10 schools in India 
      Top 10 Richest People 
      Top 10 Actors in India 
      Top 10 Army in the World 
      Top 10 Pharma Companies in India 
      Top 10 Tablets in India 
      Top 10 IMDB Movies 
      Top 10 Korean Drama 
      Top 10 Laptops 
      Top 10 Hollywood Horror Movies 
      Top 10 Android Games 
      Top 10 Money Earning Apps 
      Top 10 Mutual Funds 
      Top 10 PC Games 
      Top 10 MBA Colleges in India 
      Top 10 Cars in the World 
      Top 10 Sleeping Pills 
      Top 10 Network Marketing Companies in India 
      Top 10 IT Companies In India 
      Top 10 Football Players 
      Top 10 Perfumes for Men 
      Top 10 Schools in Delhi 
      Top 10 Freedom Fighters of India 
      Top 10 Hindi Songs 
      Top 10 Hindi Web Series 
      Top 10 Singers in India 
      Top 10 Dangerous Dogs 
      Top 10 Cement In India 
      Top 10 IT Companies In The World 
      Top 10 Largest Countries In The World 
      Top 10 Populated Countries 
      Top 10 Colleges of DU 
      Top 10 news channels in the world 
      Top 10 Cryptocurrency 
      Top 10 Economies In The World 
      Top 10 Free Fire Players In India 
      Top 10 Scooty In India 
      Top 10 English Songs 
      Top 10 Hollywood Action Movies 
      Top 10 Home Remedies For Pimples 
      Top 10 Martial Artists In The World 
      Top 10 Iron Rich Foods 
      Top 10 Shoe Brands 
      Top 10 Mileage Bikes In India 
      Top 10 News Channel In India 
      Top 10 Private Universities in India 
      Top 10 Beautiful Flowers in the World 
      Top 10 Degree Colleges In Hyderabad 
      B Praak Top 10 Songs 
      Top 10 T20 Batsman 
      10 Most Successful Businesses to Start 
      Top 10 Engineering College in Chennai 
      10 IIT Colleges in India 
      Top 10 Private Banks in India 
      Top 10 Sports Bikes in India 
      Top 10 Engineering College In Andhra Pradesh 
      Top 10 TV series 
      Top 10 Zombie Movies 
      Top 10 Face Wash in the World 
      Top 10 Universities in Canada 
      Top 10 comedy movies 
      Top 10 Dancers in India 
      Top 10 dancers in the world 
      Top 10 Stock Brokers in India 
      Top 10 Richest Person In The World 
      
      
      
      
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       
        
       
      
      
       
        
        
         
           
            
            next ? 
            ? prev 
            Top 10 Stock Brokers in India What is a broker? Brokers are market makers, which means they function as a middleman between buyers and sellers. Depending on the sort of order, they either make or take liquidity. Brokers are generally entire organizations rather than a single individual. These organizations frequently provide various services, such as money management, investment advice, and even creating financial products, such as ETFs or mutual funds to their consumers. As account custodians, brokers earn commissions on each transaction and collect interest. Brokerage firms frequently provide signing bonuses to new clients to help them grow their assets under management. What exactly does the term stockbroker mean? A stockbroker is a professionally trained individual who buys and sells the stock for a commission or other fee on behalf of their clients. These sales are often conducted on the stock market via various securities exchanges. The broker is normally associated with one or more brokerage firms, but they can also be an independent agent. A stockbroker may also be called a registered representative (RR) or a financial advisor. Most of the stockbrokers work for brokerage firms and handle transactions for various individual and institutional clients. Stockbrokers are mostly compensated on a commission basis, though this varies by job. Brokerage firms and broker-dealer companies are also informally known as stockbrokers. These include full-service brokers and cheap brokers who execute trades but do not provide personalized investment advice. Most internet brokers, at least at their most basic service levels, are discount brokers, meaning that trades are handled for free or a tiny set-price commission. Many online brokers now charge greater fees for premium-level services What do Stock Brokers Do? Client funds are handled by stockbrokers, who also execute buy and sell transactions on their behalf. Few brokers work on the trading floor of a stock exchange, such as the New York Stock Exchange. Many transactions on the floor used to take place when buy and sell orders were manually matched with other brokers. Because transactions on the modern exchange are initially matched electronically, mostly brokers now work at the desk in their employer's offices hours. Types of Stock Brokers In India, there are two categories of stockbrokers: Full-service brokers and Discount brokers. 1. Traditional or full-service broker Along with the purchase and sale of shares, full-service brokers provide traders with various services such as guidance, research, retirement, and tax preparation. In addition to full-service brokers, bank subsidiaries provide 3 in 1 account, such as a savings bank account, an online trading facility, and a Demat account. Examples are HDFC securities, Kotak securities, and ICICI securities. Except for savings accounts, some full-service brokers provide these services. 2. Low-cost Broker or Discount Broker Stockbroking accounts with no-frills are available from the budget broker. They also provide only the essential training facilities cheaply, allowing them to be classified as low-cost carriers. Trading using bargain brokers is the most current trend in India. Furthermore, the investor's money is highly safe with them because stock brokerages are thoroughly regulated. Discount brokers have much lower trade fees than full-service brokers. Zerodha, Upstox, Smart Trade Online, and others are some of India's most well-known discount brokers. List of Top Stock Brokers in India 
            
            
              
              S.no. 
              Name of Stock Brokers 
              Active Clients 
              Total Complaints 
              Solved Complaints 
              
              
              1. 
              Motilal Oswal 
              322042 
              165 
              96.36% 
              
              
              2. 
              Kotak Securities 
              424024 
              168 
              90.47% 
              
              
              3. 
              ICICI Direct 
              830368 
              150 
              97.33% 
              
              
              4. 
              Sharekhan 
              528983 
              116 
              90.51% 
              
              
              5. 
              HDFC Securities 
              669931 
              83 
              95.18% 
              
              
              6. 
              Axis Direct 
              416775 
              24 
              83.33% 
              
              
              7. 
              Edelweiss Broking 
              120327 
              88 
              93.18% 
              
              
              8. 
              Angel Broking 
              413156 
              210 
              93.8% 
              
              
              9. 
              Religare Online 
              163500 
              65 
              93.84% 
              
              
              10. 
              Karvy Online 
              269327 
              219 
              93.15% 
              
            
            1. Motilal Oswal  Motilal Oswal Securities Limited (MOSL) was established in 1987 as a modest sub-broking firm with only two employees. As a result of its ambitious growth plans, it has risen to become one of India's top ten stock brokers. Motilal Oswal Securities, headquartered in Mumbai, has a network of 520 cities and towns, 1,743 Business Locations, and 7,40,000 registered customers as of March 2015. Motilal Oswal Securities' guidance is built on a solid foundation of research. Almost 10% of revenue is spent on stock research, and MOSL hires and trains the best people to be their advisors. MOSL currently employs over 30 research analysts that do fundamental, technical, and derivatives research on over 250 companies across 20 industries. Motilal Oswal's research reports have extracted widespread media notice. MOSL won the Best Performing Equity Broker (National) title four years at the CNBC TV18 Financial Advisor Awards. Motilal Oswal is waiving the Rs 500 account opening charge. In addition, there are various attractive offers, such as one month of zero brokerage trading across all sectors and free trading mode use. Their frequently read study reports will likewise be beneficial to the buyer. Motilal Oswal has three separate trading platforms where users may readily get information about their trades. First, there is the Motilal Oswal Desktop Trading Platform, followed by the Motilal Oswal Web-Based Trading Platform, and finally, there is the Motilal Oswal Mobile Trading Platform. 2. ICICI Direct  ICICI Direct is an online trading and investment account given by ICICI Securities, India's largest retail stockbroker. It is a trading platform that links your banking, trading, and Demat accounts. ICICI Direct gives a wide range of investment options to retail and institutional customers, as well as a comprehensive suite of investment products such as Online Equity Trading, Derivatives Trading, Mutual Fund & IPO, Fixed Deposit, Bond, NCD, wealth products, Home Loans, Loan against Securities, and so on; all accessible through a single login. ICICI Bank's primary website is "ICICIdirect.com." It gives a very simple and productive approach to investing in the stock market and other financial instruments. ICICI Direct Trades on the Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE) and the National Stock Exchange (NSE). Account Varieties ICICI Direct provides two kinds of accounts: 
            
            The 3-in-1 Account: A 3-in-1 account links a bank account, a trading account, and a Demat account, and these accounts are linked so that transactions between them are smooth. 
            Account with Two Functions: A 2-in-1 account combines a trading account and a Demat account. The customer can get connected to the trading and Demat accounts using a non-ICICI bank account. Customers can ignore creating a new bank account with ICICI Bank to trade and invest with ICICI direct. 
            ICICI direct Advantages The following are some of the benefits of ICICI direct. 
            
            A 3-in-1 account combines your banking, brokerage, and Demat accounts. All of the accounts are from ICICI and are well integrated. Because of this characteristic, ICICI is the most riveting player in the online trading facility.  
            Unlike most online trading businesses in India, which need money to be transferred to the broker's pool or towards deposits, ICICI Direct allows you to handle your own Demat and bank accounts via ICICIdirect.com. Money from stock sales is available in an ICICI bank account as soon as ICICI Direct receives it.  
            Online investment in IPOs, Mutual Funds, GOI Bonds, and Postal Savings Schemes from a single website. ICICI Lombard also provides general insurance. 
            Trading is possible on both the BSE and the NSE. 
            The website is suitable for trading from mobile devices or those with sluggish Internet connections. 
            Here, is the best advantage of ICICI Direct is VTC (Valid till Cancelled). The users can create buy or sell limit orders that will be valid for 45 days. 
            ICICI Direct Drawbacks The following are the disadvantages of ICICI Direct. 
            
            ICICI direct brokerage is exorbitant and non-negotiable. 
            ICICI's regular I-Secure Plan has a minimum brokerage charge of Rs 35 per trade, which is excessively exorbitant for traders who undertake tiny deals. 
            ICICI charges a flat Rs 0.05 per share brokerage on equities with a market capitalization of up to Rs 10. It makes trading in penny stocks extremely tough. 
            After the first 20 free calls in a month, ICICI direct costs Rs 25 for each call and trade. 
            3. Sharekhan Sharekhan is an Indian full-service stockbroker that was founded in 2000. It provides stock market trading and investing opportunities to Indian investors. BNP Paribas purchased Sharekhan in 2016. It is operated as a completely owned subsidiary of BNP Paribas. BNP Paribas S.A. is a major European bank. It is traded on Euronext Paris, France's stock exchange. With 676631 customers, Sharekhan is the 5th largest retail brokerage full-service brokerage firm and the 8th largest stockbroker in India. Sharekhan was a forerunner in online trading in India. Securities brokerage, mutual fund distribution, loan against shares, ESOP financing, IPO financing, and wealth management are among the financial goods and services it provides. Sharekhan provides retail brokerage services in the equities, commodities, currency markets, initial public offerings (IPOs), portfolio management services, and mutual funds. Customers can also get research and stock suggestions from the company. The internet trading services are provided through the platforms listed below: 
            
            Sharekhan App (for mobile trading) 
            Sharekhan Website (for website trading) (Trading Terminal) 
            Customers can also trade offline by visiting any of Share khan's locations which are spread across India. Sharekhan has over 4800 employees in India and is available in over 575 cities through 153 branches and over 2,500 business partners. The organization has 1.4 million customers and executes more than 4 lakh trades every day on average. It also provides Call & Trade services, which allow you to place orders over the phone. 4. HDFC Securities  HDFC Securities is one of India's largest trading platforms, providing users with rapid and reasonably priced trading options. Account administration can be done from a computer or a mobile phone. Alternatively, you can meet your investing needs by visiting one of the over 250 HDFC branches located throughout the country. HDFC Securities Ltd is a stockbroker and distribution branch of HDFC Bank, a prominent banking services provider to corporate and individual consumers in India. When it comes to trading, HDFC Securities has over two million Demat accounts, which are required for holding shares and securities in an electronic format, and is backed by a nationwide distribution network of over 3,500 Demat centers. Having an account with HDFC Securities can let the customers make and track their investments in a secure and worry-free manner. Given that HDFC Bank was one of the first corporations to get approval from the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to establish a private sector bank in 1994, this shouldn't come as a surprise. When it comes to client security, HDFC is still a name you can rely on today. Here are some noteworthy account features to highlight: Three accounts in one: In HDFC Bank, you'll get a three-in-one account that comprises a bank account and a free Demat account, linked to the customer's online trading account with a unique login ID and password, which the customer provides. Trading is quick and easy: Take advantage of personalized stock alerts, a sophisticated portfolio tracker, research reports, and much more. Features for security: You can use your mobile device to track any possible unauthenticated transactions in your Demat account. Customer care: HDFC Securities has different phone lines for its trading and customer service teams. Its Demat account services team is available Monday through Saturday from 8:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. (the service is unavailable on the second or fourth Saturday of the month). 5. Axis Direct  Axis Direct, Axis Bank's is the stockbroking arm, and it was founded in 2011 as a full-service stockbroker by Arun Thukral. Axis Direct is one of the emerging stockbrokers in the offline industry, with over 75 outlets across India. Furthermore, Axis Direct has one of the most active client bases in the Indian stock broking industry. This supplier broker has subscriptions to the NSE, BSE, MSEI, and MCX - SX and allows users to trade in various financial segments, including equity, derivative trading, currency trading, IPO, NCDs, mutual funds, bonds, and ETFs. Axis Direct has a working client base of over 300,000 people. As an Axis Bank affiliate, Axis Direct enables users to open a Demat 3-in-1 account, eliminating fund transfer complications. With this option, your bank account is directly embedded with your business account, and you are not required to manage financial transfers manually as an initiator. 6. Karvy Online  Karvy Group is a well-diversified conglomerate with operations spanning the whole financial services spectrum and data processing and management. With over 30 years of experience and expertise, we have reinvented the financial domain via innovation, technology, and a customer-centric approach. The Group serves over 70 million retail investors in various roles and provides customer services to over 600 business entities, representing the finest of Corporate India. KSBL assists investors in building a portfolio that takes into account their risk profile and future financial demands, ensuring that their investments achieve an optimal balance of risk and return. Karvy online has a joint account facility that caters to all investment opportunities such as equities, derivatives, currency, initial public offerings (IPOs), mutual funds, and non-convertible notes (NCDs). It is distributed around the country, offering you a diverse selection of financial assets as well as personalized investment planning and solutions to help you realize your dreams. Karvy Group, a steadfast player in the financial realm for three decades with extensive experience, offers a wide range of services. Karvy has carved out a position by focusing on integrity, superior service, and a customer-centric attitude. Among the services provided by the Group are stock brokerage, registrar and transfer services, data analytics, and data management. We are proud to be affiliated with you in all aspects of your life through our array of services. Karvy Stock Broking, Karvy Group's broking business, provides concrete and personalized solutions to corporate, institutional, and individual clients. We strive to be the finest in the market by utilizing cutting-edge technology and competent management. Our comprehensive trading account enables clients to approach multiple investment revenues in an integrated manner, allowing them to deal with simplicity. 7. Angel One Limited  It was one of India's largest retail brokerage firms in terms of active customers on the NSE as of June 30, 2020. It provides broking and consulting services, margin funding, loans against shares (via one of our subsidiaries, AFPL), and financial product distribution. Its digital marketing efforts have helped it generate 398 million digital impressions on its different online and digital platforms by June 2020. As of June 30, 2020, its client reach in India was around 96.87 percent or 18,649 pin codes. As of June 30, 2020, it has managed 132,540 million client assets and over 2.15 million operational brokerage accounts. The Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE), National Stock Exchange (NSE), Metropolitan Stock Exchange of India (MSEI), NCDEX, and MCX are all members of Angel One Limited (previously known as Angel Broking Limited). Angel One Limited (formerly known as Angel Broking Limited) is also a CDSL Depository Participant. 
            
            
            Next Topic
            Top 10 Richest Person In The World 
             
            
            ? prev 
            next ? 
             
          
        
        
       
       
      
        
        For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel:  Join Now 
       
       
      Feedback 
       
       Send your Feedback to [email protected] 
       
       
      Help Others, Please Share 
       
       
       
      
       
       
       
       
       
       Learn Latest Tutorials 
        
         
         
           
          Splunk 
           
         
         
           
          SPSS 
           
         
         
           
          Swagger 
           
         
         
           
          Transact-SQL 
           
         
         
           
          Tumblr 
           
         
         
           
          ReactJS 
           
         
         
           
          Regex 
           
         
         
           
          Reinforcement Learning 
           
         
         
           
          R Programming 
           
         
         
           
          RxJS 
           
         
         
           
          React Native 
           
         
         
           
          Python Design Patterns 
           
         
         
           
          Python Pillow 
           
         
         
           
          Python Turtle 
           
         
         
           
          Keras 
           
        
       
       
       
       Preparation 
        
         
         
           
          Aptitude 
           
         
         
           
          Reasoning 
           
         
         
           
          Verbal Ability 
           
         
         
           
          Interview Questions 
           
         
         
           
          Company Questions 
           
        
       
       
       
       Trending Technologies 
        
         
         
           
          Artificial Intelligence 
           
         
         
           
          AWS 
           
         
         
           
          Selenium 
           
         
         
           
          Cloud Computing 
           
         
         
           
          Hadoop 
           
         
         
           
          ReactJS 
           
         
         
           
          Data Science 
           
         
         
           
          Angular 7 
           
         
         
           
          Blockchain 
           
         
         
           
          Git 
           
         
         
           
          Machine Learning 
           
         
         
           
          DevOps 
           
        
       
       
       
       B.Tech / MCA 
        
         
         
           
          DBMS 
           
         
         
           
          Data Structures 
           
         
         
           
          DAA 
           
         
         
           
          Operating System 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Network 
           
         
         
           
          Compiler Design 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Organization 
           
         
         
           
          Discrete Mathematics 
           
         
         
           
          Ethical Hacking 
           
         
         
           
          Computer Graphics 
           
         
         
           
          Software Engineering 
           
         
         
           
          Web Technology 
           
         
         
           
          Cyber Security 
           
         
         
           
          Automata 
           
         
         
           
          C Programming 
           
         
         
           
          C++ 
           
         
         
           
          Java 
           
         
         
           
          .Net 
           
         
         
           
          Python 
           
         
         
           
          Programs 
           
         
         
           
          Control System 
           
         
         
           
          Data Mining 
           
         
         
           
          Data Warehouse 
           
        
       
      
     
     
      
      
       
     
     
     
      
       
      
     
      
     
     
     
      
     
      
     
      
     
     
     
      
      Javatpoint Services 
      JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on [email protected], to get more information about given services. 
       
       Website Designing
       Website Development
       Java Development
       PHP Development
       WordPress
       Graphic Designing
       Logo
       Digital Marketing
       On Page and Off Page SEO
       PPC
       Content Development
       Corporate Training
       Classroom and Online Training
       Data Entry
       
      
     
      
      Training For College Campus 
      JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at [email protected] Duration: 1 week to 2 week
     
     
     
      
      Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter  
       
       
       
       
       
       
     
     
      
       Learn Tutorials
       Learn Java
       Learn Data Structures
       Learn C Programming
       Learn C++ Tutorial
       Learn C# Tutorial
       Learn PHP Tutorial
       Learn HTML Tutorial
       Learn JavaScript Tutorial
       Learn jQuery Tutorial
       Learn Spring Tutorial
      
      
       Our Websites
       Javatpoint.com
       Hindi100.com
       Lyricsia.com
       Quoteperson.com
       Jobandplacement.com
      
      
       Our Services
       Website Development
       Android Development
       Website Designing
       Digital Marketing
       Summer Training
       Industrial Training
       College Campus Training
      
      
       Contact
       Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3
       Noida, UP, 201301, India
       Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935
       Contact Us 
       Subscribe Us 
       Privacy Policy
       Sitemap
       
       About Me
      
     
     
      © Copyright 2011-2021 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
      
      
      
     
   
   
  
   
     
 

